The defination and meaning of 401(k) Plan is A retirement plan that enables employees to set aside a portion of their compensation in a special account, often with matching contributions from the employer. Contributions and earnings grow tax-deferred until withdrawn - ideally at retirement.

The defination and meaning of 50% Principle (one-half retracement) is After a sustained move in price, this principle holds that a normal correction can be expected to retrace one-half to two-thirds of the advance (or decline) before resuming the main trend.

The defination and meaning of AAR is Against all risks.

The defination and meaning of Abandoned Baby Pattern is A rare candlestick pattern in which an upside gap doji star (where the shadows do not touch) is followed by a downside gap black candlestick where the shadows also do not touch; considered a major top reversal signal.

The defination and meaning of Abatement is A reduction in the assessment of tax, penalty or interest when it is determined the assessment is incorrect

The defination and meaning of Abatement notice is A notice served on the owner(s) or occupier(s) of a property from which a private nuisance arises, warning them of the intention to enter on the land in order to abate the nuisance.

The defination and meaning of ABC is Elliott wave terminology for a three-wave countertrend price movement. Wave A is the first price wave against the trend of the market. Wave B is a corrective wave to Wave A. Wave C is the final price move to complete the countertrend price move. Elliott wave followers study A and C waves for price ratios based on numbers from the Fibonacci series.

The defination and meaning of Abridged Prospectus is Abridged Prospectus means the memorandum as prescribed in Form 2A under sub-section (3) of section 56 of the Companies Act, 1956. It contains all the salient features of a prospectus. It accompanies the application form of public issues.

The defination and meaning of Absolute title is The right of ownership of a mortgage deed, which gives the right, in certain specified circumstances, to demand repayment in full, of the outstanding debt than the due date. Or a clause in a deed or contract, which provides for the early termination of an exciting interest in land, in certain specified circumstances, thereby advancing the future interest.

The defination and meaning of Abstract is A brief history of title to land

The defination and meaning of Abuse of law is The doctrine which allows the tax authorities to disregard a civil law form used by the taxpayer which has no commercial basis

The defination and meaning of Accelerated death benefit is A percentage of the policy?s face amount, discounted for interest, that can be paid to the insured prior to death, under specified circumstances. This is in lieu of a traditional policy that pays beneficiaries after the insured?s death. Such benefits kick in if the insured becomes terminally ill, needs extreme medical intervention, or must reside in a nursing home. The payments made while the insured is living are deducted from any death benefits paid to beneficiaries.

The defination and meaning of Accelerated depreciation is Method of depreciation under which taxpayers may allocate larger depreciation deductions to the first year or first few years of useful business assets, such as plant and machinery

The defination and meaning of Acceptance (also, acc.) is The agreement written on a draft and signed by the drawee - who becomes the acceptor - to pay the specified amount on the due date. The term is also applied to the accepted time draft itself. See also ‘Bill of exchange’.

The defination and meaning of Acceptance credit is A documentary credit which requires, amongst the documents stipulated, provision of a term bill of exchange. The bill is then generally accepted by the bank on which it is drawn or discounted. The practical result is that the beneficiary is paid promptly at a discount.

The defination and meaning of Acceptance Letter is After you collect your sanction letter, you should, if you accept the terms of contract, communicate your willingness to accept the loan by way of an acceptance letter. You should do it within a particular time-frame which may vary between 1-3 months from the date of the sanction letter.

The defination and meaning of Acceptor is The person who accepts a bill of exchange drawn on them. Until they accept, they are called the drawee. By accepting the bill the acceptor undertakes to pay the person presenting the bill the face value of that bill. On payment the acceptor retires the bill. Where the acceptor is the initial provider of the credit, by arrangement, on maturity of the bill, they require the borrower to place their funds on an amount equivalent to the face value of the bill.

The defination and meaning of Accident & Accidental Death Benefit is In the context of life insurance, accident or accidental death is defined as a sudden and unforeseen happening that causes disability or death of the policyholder.

The defination and meaning of Accident and health insurance is Coverage for acci-dental injury, accidental death, and related health expenses. Benefits will pay for preventative services, medical expenses, and catastrophic care, with limits.

The defination and meaning of Accidental death benefit is An endorsement that pays the beneficiary an additional benefit if the insured dies from an accident.

The defination and meaning of Accidental Death Insurance is Accidental Death Insurance provides coverage in the event of death due to accidental injuries, but not illness. In the event of death, payment is made to the insured's beneficiary. And most of these covers provide for cases for bodily injury (e.g., the loss of a limb), where the insured receives a specificed sum.

The defination and meaning of Accounting basis is Method of calculating amounts subject to income tax and VAT. In respect of VAT, tax would be computed as a percentage levy on the excess of sales over purchases. This is a theoretical concept and no country uses it.

The defination and meaning of Accounting period is A period of time used by taxpayer for the determination of tax liability

The defination and meaning of Accounting records is All documents and books used in the preparation of the tax return and all financial statements, including general ledger, subsidiary ledgers, sales slips, and invoices.

The defination and meaning of Accounts payable is A list of the debts currently owed by a person or business, mainly for the purchase of services, inventory, and supplies

The defination and meaning of Accounts receivable is A list of the money owed on current account to a creditor, which is kept in the normal course of the creditor's business and represents unsettled claims and transactions

The defination and meaning of Accounts receivable (debtors) insurance is Indemnifies for losses that are due to an inability to collect from open commercial account debtors because records have been destroyed by an insured peril.

The defination and meaning of Accrual Basis is A method of accounting that allows revenues and expenses to be accrued, even if cash had not been received or paid during the accrual period.

The defination and meaning of Accrual basis (accrual method) is An accounting method whereby income and expense items are included in taxable income or expense as they are earned or incurred, rather than when they are received or paid

The defination and meaning of Accrued Expenses is Expenses shown on the income statement but not yet paid.

The defination and meaning of Accrued Interest is Interest earned between the most recent interest payment and the present date but not yet paid to the lender.

The defination and meaning of Accumulation is Process by which, over a period of time, a large or excess supply of stock or futures contracts is absorbed by increasing demand from buyers. Generally, there is little price action until the sellers have been exhausted. Then buyers dominate and price tends to rise.

The defination and meaning of Accumulation Period is The time interval between the commencement of the policy and the time when benefits are paid out. It is established by the insured.

The defination and meaning of Accumulation/distribution is The Accumulation/Distribution is a momentum indicator that associates changes in price and volume. The indicator is based on the premise that the more volume that accompanies a price move, the more significant the price move. Accumulation/Distribution attempts to confirm changes in prices by comparing the volume associated with prices. When the Accumulation/Distribution moves up, it shows that the security is being accumulated, as most of the volume is associated with upward price movement. When the indicator moves down, it shows that the security is being distributed, as most of the volume is associated with downward price movement. Divergences between the Accumulation/Distribution and the security’s price imply a change is imminent. When a divergence does occur, prices usually change to confirm the accumulation/distribution. For example, if the indicator is moving up and the security’s price is going down, prices will probably reverse. If the days price change is positive then the difference in the daily high and low price is added to the total, and conversely if the daily change is negative then the daily range is subtracted from the total.

The defination and meaning of Acid Test Ratio is It is the ratio indicated by dividing a company's current assets by current liabilities. It reflects the financial strength of a company and hence called Acid test ratio.

The defination and meaning of Activities of daily living is Activities-such as eating, bathing, toileting, dressing, and continence-that trig-ger payment in a long-term care insurance policy, if at least some of them cannot be performed by the insured.

The defination and meaning of Acts of god is Perils that cannot reasonably be guarded against, such as floods and earthquakes.

The defination and meaning of Actual cash value is A form of insurance that pays damages equal to the replacement value of damaged property minus depreciation.

The defination and meaning of Actual loss ratio is The ratio of losses incurred to premiums earned actually experienced in a given line of insurance activity in a previous time period.

The defination and meaning of Actuals is Refers to actual physical commodities, as distinguished from futures.

The defination and meaning of Actuarial cost assumptions is Assumptions about rates of investment earnings, mortality, turnover, salpatterns, probable expenses, and distribution or actual ages at which employees are likely to retire.

The defination and meaning of Actuarial Cost Method is A method that determines contributions that would be made under an insurance plan.

The defination and meaning of Actuary is An insurance professional skilled in the analysis, evaluation, and management of statistical information. Evaluates insurance firms? reserves, determines rates and rating methods, and determines other business and financial risks.

The defination and meaning of AD&D is Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefits

The defination and meaning of Adaptive Filter is Smoothing and/or forecasting prices with continuously updated weighting of past prices.

The defination and meaning of Add on offering is When a publicly traded company issues additional shares to the public.

The defination and meaning of Add-On Card is As the term suggests, an add-on card is a privilege offered to the spouse, parents or children of the primary credit card holder. The fee for an add-on card varies between Rs. 125 to Rs. 1,000 depending on the type of card and all expenses incurred on an add-on card are billed to the primary cardholder.

The defination and meaning of Add-on Method is A method of paying interest where the interest is added onto the principal at maturity or interest payment dates.

The defination and meaning of Additional insureds is Persons who have an insurable interest in the property/person covered in a policy and who are covered against the losses outlined in the policy. They usually receive less coverage than the pri-mary named insured.

The defination and meaning of Additional living expenses is Extra charges covered by homeowners policies over and above the policy-holder?s customary living expenses. They kick in when the insured requires temporary shelter due to damage by a covered peril that makes the home temporarily uninhabitable.

The defination and meaning of Adjustable Life Insurance is A facility allowing a life insurance policy owner to change the insurance plan, increase or decrease the premium and make changes in the protection period.

The defination and meaning of Adjusted Futures Price is The cash-price equivalent reflected in the current futures price. This is calculated by taking the futures price times the conversion factor for the particular financial instrument (e.g., bond or note) being delivered.

The defination and meaning of Adjusted Gross Income is An interim calculation used in computing income tax liability. It is computed by subtracting certain allowable adjustments from gross income.

The defination and meaning of Adjuster is An individual employed by a property/cas-ualty insurer to evaluate losses and settle policyholder claims. These adjusters differ from public adjusters, who negotiate with insurers on behalf of policyhold-ers, and receive a portion of a claims settlement. Inde-pendent adjusters are independent contractors who adjust claims for different insurance companies.

The defination and meaning of Administrative expenses is Expenses that are not as easily associated with a specific function as are the direct costs of manufacturing and selling. It typically includes expenses of the headquarters office and accounting expenses.

The defination and meaning of Administrative Fee is The fee you pay for meeting the overheads of the administrative work handled by the housing finance firm. Usually to be paid while giving the acceptance letter.

The defination and meaning of Admitted company is An insurance company licensed and authorized to do business in a particular state or country.

The defination and meaning of ADR is An acronym for American Depository Receipt. Currently popular because of the rush of Indian firms to issue ADRs. Technically, it is an instrument traded at exchanges in the US representing a fixed number of shares of a foreign company that is traded in the foreign country. By trading in ADRs, U.S. investors manage to avoid some of the problems of dealing in foreign securities markets. The ADR route enables companies to raise funds in the U.S. financial markets, provided they meet the stringent regulatory norms for disclosure and accounting.

The defination and meaning of Advance EMI is Number of equated installment(s) paid in advance at the time of disbursement in the form of post dated cheques.

The defination and meaning of Advance payment guarantee/bond is This is a guarantee that advance payments will be returned if the party having received such payments does not perform its part of the contract.

The defination and meaning of Advance pricing arrangement (apa) is An arrangement that determines, in advance of controlled transactions, an appropriate set of criteria (e.g. method, comparables and appropriate adjustments thereto, critical assumptions as to future events) for the determination of the transfer pricing for those transactions over a fixed period of time.  An advance pricing arrangement may be unilateral involving one tax administration and a taxpayer or multilateral involving the agreement of two or more tax administrations.

The defination and meaning of Advance ruling is A letter ruling, which is a written statement, issued to a taxpayer by tax authorities, that interprets and applies the tax law to a specific set of facts

The defination and meaning of Advance-Decline Line is Each day's number of declining issues is subtracted from the number of advancing issues. The net difference is added to a running sum if the difference is positive or subtracted from the running sum if the difference is negative.

The defination and meaning of Advance/Decline Data is The number of stocks or bonds or commodities which have advanced in a given time period compared to the number which have declined. The difference (breadth) is considered important in gauging the strength or weakness of the market. Daily observations are the most common.

The defination and meaning of Advance/Decline Line is Each day's declining issues are subtracted from the day's advancing issues. The difference is added to (subtracted from if negative) a running total or sum.

The defination and meaning of Advances vs. Declines is (A/D) This is a measure of the number of stocks that have advanced in price and the number that have declined in price within a given time span. The A/D is generally expressed as a ratio and can help indicate the general direction of the market; when a higher number of stocks advance rather than decline on a single trading day, the market is thought to be bullish. The A/D will function best as a confirming indicator and it is often used with other types of analysis as a guide to the trend of the overall market. It is also used occasionally for specific stock/industry groups. 
The most common way to display A/D data is with a chart showing the cumulative difference between the advances and the declines on the NYSE. The period can be one week, one month, or any other common time frame but since it is best used to identify new or developing trends, it must be relative to the positions in your portfolio. Compare the A/D chart with that of the DJIA. If the Dow is moving higher but the A/D line is flat or dropping, that is a negative signal and may indicate a future slump. Watch for new highs and lows on the A/D chart. Near market peaks, the A/D line will generally top-out and begin a gradual decline before the overall market. As with all technical indicators, make sure that it confirms other signals.

The defination and meaning of Adverse Excursion is The loss attributable to price movement against the position in any one trade.

The defination and meaning of Adverse selection is The tendency of those exposed to a higher risk to seek more insurance coverage than those at a lower risk. Insurers react either by charging higher premiums or not insuring at all. In the case of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, adverse selection concentrates risk instead of spreading it. Insurance. works best when risk is shared among large numbers of policyholders.

The defination and meaning of Advice of fate is A request for advice of payment/non-payment (acceptance/non-acceptance) of a bill of exchange.

The defination and meaning of Advising bank is The bank that notifies or advises the exporter that a credit has been opened in the exporter’s favour. The advising bank, usually located in the exporter’s country, fully informs the exporter of the conditions of the documentary credit without itself making a payment commitment.

The defination and meaning of ADX- directional movement index is The Directional Movement Index provides an indication of how much a stock is trending. Since stocks tend to only trend 30% of the time and move sideways the remainder of the time this indicator can prove very useful. There are three lines that make up this indicator. The +DI (Directional Indicator), the – DI (Directional Indicator), and the ADX (Average Directional Indicator). The +DI line measures upward movement, the -DI meansures downward movement. The ADX measures the strength of the prevailing trend. For example: If the +DI crosses over the -DI, or the -DI crosses over the +DI the ADX MUST be rising in order to confirm the signal.

The defination and meaning of Affiliation privilege is Tax relief or exemption accorded to dividend distributions made by a resident subsidiary company to its parent company which owns a certain minimum percentage of shares, in order to mitigate double taxation of such dividends.

The defination and meaning of Affinity sales is Selling insurance through groups such as professional and business associations.

The defination and meaning of Affirmative warranty is An agreement between an insurance company and an agent, granting the agent authority to write insurance from that company. It specifies the duties, rights, and obligations of both parties.

The defination and meaning of After date is Payment on a negotiable instrument, such as a bank draft, becomes due a specified number of days after presentation of the draft.

The defination and meaning of After Tax Rupees is This refers to the disposable income that the policy holder has in his hands after paying all tax dues during a particular financial year under the Income Tax Act.

The defination and meaning of After-Hours Trading is stock trading when the major stock exchanges are closed.

The defination and meaning of Aftermarket is Trading in the IPO subsequent to its offering is called the aftermarket. Trading volume in IPOs is extremely high on the first day due to aftermarket purchases. Trading volume can decline subsequently in the following days.

The defination and meaning of AGDP is Agricultural Gross Domestic Product.

The defination and meaning of Age Limits is The maximum and minimum ages above or below which an insurance company will not accept applications for insurance from or will not renew a policy with a person.

The defination and meaning of Age Rule is Rule regarding eligibility to contribute to a Traditional IRA. An individual must be under age 70½ for the entire year to make a regular contribution to an IRA.

The defination and meaning of Agency is A business that provides a particular service to a company (that are outside of the country where the agency is located). Dependent agency constitutes a permanent establishment for the other company and the income achieved through the agency is taxed on the income earned from the country where the agency is located whereas independent agency does not.

The defination and meaning of Agent is Insurance is sold by two types of agents: inde-pendent agents, who are self-employed, represent several insurance companies and are paid on commission, and exclusive or captive agents, who represent only one insurance company and are either salaried or work on commission. Insurance companies that use exclusive or captive agents are called direct writers.

The defination and meaning of Agent (Life Advisor) is A representative of an insurance company authorized to sell insurance policies.

The defination and meaning of Agent/agency agreement is An agent is an independent person or legal entity which acts on behalf of another (the ‘principal’). In international transactions, generally refers to a
sales representative who prospects on behalf of a foreign principal, earning commission on sales eventually concluded between the principal and the ultimate client (see also ‘Foreign sales agent’). To be distinguished from sales through employees and subsidiaries - who are not independent, or through distributorship relations, which involve the distributor’s buying and re-selling in their own name. Sales agents should also be distinguished from buying or purchasing agents, as the respective rights and obligations are quite different.

The defination and meaning of Aggregate deductible is A type of deductible that applies for an entire year in which the insured absorbs all losses until the deductible level is reached, at which point the insurer pays for all loses over the specified amount.

The defination and meaning of Aggregate limits is A yearly limit, rather than a?per occurrence? limit. Once an insurance company has paid up to the limit, it will pay no more during that year.

The defination and meaning of Aggregation is Term used to denote the adding together of the taxpayer's income from all sources in order to determine the applicable tax rate for income tax purposes.

The defination and meaning of Aggressor is A trader dealing on an existing price in the market.

The defination and meaning of AGMARK is Agricultural Marking.

The defination and meaning of Agreement for lease/sale is A contract to enter into a lease (or sale), which in order to be enforceable either must be evidenced in writing and signed by the person against whom action is taken for the breach of the alleged contract and there must be a sufficient act of part performance.

The defination and meaning of Air Accident Insurance is Air accident insurance is insurance coverage geared specifically to the operation of aircraft and the risks involved in aviation. Air accident insurance policies are distinctly different from those for other areas of transportation and tend to incorporate aviation terminology, as well as terminology, limits and clauses specific to air accident insurance.

The defination and meaning of Air Miles is 'Miles' as they are popularly known, log up each time a card is used in the card holder's account and can be redeemed for free flights.

The defination and meaning of Aleatory contract is A legal contract in which the outcome depends on an uncertain event. Insurance contracts are aleatory in nature.

The defination and meaning of Alien, tax treatment of is A person who is not a citizen of the country in which he or she lives. In general, most countries do not distinguish between nationals and aliens for tax purposes; rather tax liability is based on residence and/or domicile.

The defination and meaning of Alienation of income is Term generally used to describe the transfer of the right to receive income from a source while not necessarily transferring the ownership of that source to the same person.

The defination and meaning of All or None is This is an instruction you can give your broker when placing a buy or a sell order. This instruction ensures that your order will be filled in its entirety or not at all. This prevents having a partial execution of your trade.

The defination and meaning of All risks (AR) is A type of insurance coverage providing somewhat more than the minimum coverage, at a premium above the base amount paid under a particular policy. Unfortunately, all risks coverage does not in fact cover all risks -thus, for example, coverage of war, riots and strikes is not usually included; moreover, there is no standard nomenclature for all risks coverage. Traders should understand what exactly is covered in all risks coverage, and decide whether or not they need additional coverage, before agreeing to such a term.

The defination and meaning of All-or-None Order is An order that must be filled completely or the trade will not take place.

The defination and meaning of All-risk agreement is A property or liability insur-ance contract in which all risks of loss are covered except those specifically excluded; also called?open perils policy.?

The defination and meaning of Allotment is The acceptance of an application subscribing to the shares of a company. Establishes a contract that underlies an investment through public subscription.

The defination and meaning of Allowance is Deduction or exemptions generally made in computing income taxes, inheritance and gift taxes and some forms of sales taxes.

The defination and meaning of Alpha is Alpha measures the difference between a fund's actual returns and its expected performance, given its level of risk (as measured by beta). A positive alpha figure indicates the fund has performed better than its beta would predict. In contrast, a negative alpha indicates a fund has underperformed, given the expectations established by the fund's beta. Some investors see alpha as a measurement of the value added or subtracted by a fund's manager. There are limitations to alpha's ability to accurately depict a manager's added or subtracted value. In some cases, a negative alpha can result from the expenses that are present in the fund figures but are not present in the figures of the comparison index. Alpha is dependent on the accuracy of beta: If the investor accepts beta as a conclusive definition of risk, a positive alpha would be a conclusive indicator of good fund performance. Of course, the value of beta is dependent on another statistic, known as R-squared.

The defination and meaning of Alternative dispute resolution (ADR) is Alternative to going to court to settle disputes. Methods include arbitration, where disputing parties agree to be bound to the decision of an independent third party, and mediation, where a third party tries to arrange a settlement between the two sides.

The defination and meaning of Alternative markets is Mechanisms used to fund self-insurance. This includes captives, which are insurers owned by one or more non-insurers to provide owners with coverage. Risk-retention groups, formed by members of similar professions or businesses to obtain liability insurance, are also a form of self-insurance.

The defination and meaning of Alternative user value is The value of land and buildings which reflects a prospective use which is different from that of the current use.

The defination and meaning of American Depositary Receipt (ADR) is A certificate trading on a U.S. stock exchange that represents shares of a foreign corporation.

The defination and meaning of American Depository Receipts (ADRs) is Certificates that are issued by a bank of US origin and traded in the U.S. as domestic shares. The certificates represent the foreign securities that the bank holds in that security's country of origin.

The defination and meaning of American-Style Option is An option contract that may be exercised at any time between the date of purchase and the expiration date. Most exchange-traded options in the United States are American-style.

The defination and meaning of American-Style Options is Options that can be exercised any time during their lifetime. These are also known as open options.

The defination and meaning of Amortisation is Reduction of an amount at regular intervals over a certain time period. Usually, refers to the reduction of debt by regular payment of loan installments during the life of a loan. Also describes the accounting process of writing off an intangible asset.

The defination and meaning of Amortization is Process of writing off the cost of an intangible asset over its useful life.

The defination and meaning of Amortization method is Method of computing a credit under a VAT regime where investment goods are purchased which have a useful life in the business for a period exceeding one year. The tax embodied in the price paid for the assets may be credited to the trader over a period of years corresponding to the life of the assets.

The defination and meaning of Analysis of Variance is The partitioning of total sum of squares into the sum of squares explained by the model and the remaining sum of squares unexplained.

The defination and meaning of Analyst is Someone typically working for a brokerage house, who publishes buy/hold/sell recommendations and earnings forecasts for a stock. Buy side analysts work for institutional buyers, and sell side analysts work for brokerages.

The defination and meaning of Anaume is An exceptional exhaustion pattern (meaning "gap filling") composed of five candles. The anaume occurs when the gap is filled in after a market price has changed directions. This pattern coupled with the other patterns indicate a strong potential for a bullish reversal and price advance.

The defination and meaning of Anchor tenant is One or more department or variety chainstores, or supermarkets, introduced into a shopping centre in key positions to attract the shopping public into the centre for the purpose of encouraging other retailers to lease shops en route. The larger the developments the more anchors required.

The defination and meaning of Anchoring-and-Adjustment is The tendency to evaluate current decisions in the context of past events.

The defination and meaning of Ancillary charges is In hospital insurance, covered charges other than room and board.

The defination and meaning of Andrews Method is A technique whereby a technician will pick an extreme low or high to use as a pivot point and draw a line, called the median line, from this point that bisects a line drawn through the next corrective phase that occurs after the pivot point. Lines parallel to the median line are drawn through the high and low points of the corrective phase. The parallel lines define the resistance and support levels for the price channel.

The defination and meaning of Annealing (Simulated) is Generally a metallurgical process, in artificial intelligence a process in which a neural net work searches for a set of weights to minimize errors; the search constantly shrinks as the weights find better values, analogous to the rearrangement of the molecules in a heated metal bar as the bar cools.

The defination and meaning of Annual Earnings Change is The historical earnings change between the most recently reported fiscal year earn ings and the preceding.

The defination and meaning of Annual Fee is This is payable in advance, but not paid for in cash. It is billed into the first billing

The defination and meaning of Annual Fund Operating Expenses is The expenses incurred, during a particular year, by Asset Management Company for managing the funds.

The defination and meaning of Annual General Meeting (AGM) is The shareholders meeting, usually held at the end of each financial year, to discuss the previous performance and future outlook.

The defination and meaning of Annual Net Profit Margin is The percentage that the company earned from gross sales for the most recently reported fiscal year.

The defination and meaning of Annual Percentage Rate (APR) is The interest rate that reflects the yearly cost of the interest the outstandings on your card is called the annual percentage rate. This rate is charged to the card holder on the amounts carried forward beyond the due date for the payment of balances. Most card issuers will tell you their monthly rate of interest. It might sound low at 3%, but when you look at the interest rate over the year, it turns out to be as high as 43%.

The defination and meaning of Annual Reducing Method is A method of calculating interest on the reduced principal at the end of every year. However as repayments for all loans are EMI, though the principal is reduced every month, the interest is calculated on the original loan amount for twelve months after which the repayments towards principal are taken into account. Basically, this method will benefit you the least.

The defination and meaning of Annual Report is A publication, including financial statements and a report on operations, issued by a company to its shareholders at the company's fiscal year-end.

The defination and meaning of Annual Rest is A method of calculating EMI in which the appropriation towards interest and principal is made at the end of the financial year.

The defination and meaning of Annual Sales Change is The percentage change in sales between the most recently reported fiscal year and the preceding.

The defination and meaning of Annual statement is Summary of an insurer?s or rein-surer?s financial operations for a particular year, including a balance sheet.

The defination and meaning of Annual Yield is Is the effective annual rate of return taking into account the effect of compounding interest. Its utility lies in its ability to standardize varying interest-rate arrangements into an annualized percentage number for comparison.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Annual-premium annuity is An annuity whose purchase price is paid in annual installments.

The defination and meaning of Annualized is Translating the figures for a given year into an annual rate.

The defination and meaning of Annuitant is : An individual receiving benefits under an annuity.

The defination and meaning of Annuity is An investment where the investor provides cash to the vendor, typically an insurance company, in exchange for the promise to pay a series of periodic, usually monthly, payments in return. An immediate annuity begins to pay back right away, other annuities might not pay back for many years. The money invested in an annuity grows tax-deferred.

The defination and meaning of Annuity Certain is An insurance contract that provides an annuity for a certain number of years, irrespective of whether the insured is alive or dead.

The defination and meaning of Annuity Consideration is The payment that an annuitant makes for an annuity.

The defination and meaning of Annuity Investment is That generates a stream of equal cash flows.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Annuity units is A measure used in valuing a variable annuity during the time it is being paid to the annui-tant. Each unit?s value fluctuates with the performance of an investment portfolio.

The defination and meaning of Anonymous Trading is Permits Participating Organizations to voluntarily withhold their true broker identities when entering orders and trades on TSX trading systems.

The defination and meaning of Antithetic Forecasts is Two forecasts whose errors are negatively correlated.

The defination and meaning of Apex is The point of intersection of two trendlines. A new trend may develop as prices approach the intersection.

The defination and meaning of Applicant is In the documentary credit process, normally the buyer or importer, who applies (thus, the applicant) for a documentary credit in favour of the beneficiary, the seller.

The defination and meaning of Apportionment is The dividing of a loss proportion-ately among two or more insurers that cover the same loss.

The defination and meaning of Appraisal is A survey to determine a property?s insura-ble value, or the amount of a loss.

The defination and meaning of Appreciation is The increase in the value of an asset.

The defination and meaning of Arbitrage is A transaction which generates a risk-free profit.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Arbitrage is The simultaneous purchase and sale of two different, but closely related, securities to take advantage of a disparity in their prices.

The defination and meaning of Arbitrage, tax is Process of entering into a tax motivated transaction (i.e. to obtain profit from the application of tax rules).

The defination and meaning of Arbitration is Procedure in which an insurance company and the insured or a vendor agree to settle a claim dispute by accepting a decision made by a third party.

The defination and meaning of Arms index is Also known as a trading index (TRIN)= (number of advancing issues)/ (number of declining issues) (Total up volume )/ (total down volume). An advance/decline market indicator. Less than 1.0 indicates bullish demand, while above 1.0 is bearish. The index often is smoothed with a simple moving average.

The defination and meaning of Arson is The deliberate setting of a fire

The defination and meaning of Artificial Intelligence is The field of computer science dedicated to producing programs that attempt to mimic the processes of the human brain.

The defination and meaning of Ascending Triangle (or Rising Triangle) is A chart pattern containing a series of lows, each successively higher than the last, and a series of highs that are at approximately the same level. It is considered a bullish formation when volume increases on the ascending legs. When a breakout through the level of the highs is made, the pattern is completed.

The defination and meaning of Ask is The price at which a currency pair or security is offered for sale; the quoted price at which an investor can buy a currency pair. This is also known as the "offer", "ask price", and "ask rate".

The defination and meaning of Ask or Offer is The lowest price at which someone is willing to sell the security. When combined with the bid price information, it forms the basis of a stock quote.

The defination and meaning of Ask Price is The price you are asked to pay when you buy a stock (see 'Bid Price').

The defination and meaning of Ask Size is The aggregate size in board lots of the most recent ask to sell a particular security.

The defination and meaning of Assayer is Assayer is an authorized entity (person/institution) that certifies and grades the commodities that are delivered in exchange accredited warehouses.

The defination and meaning of Assessable policy is A policy subject to additional charges, or assessments, on all policyholders in the company.

The defination and meaning of Assessment is Act of computing the tax due

The defination and meaning of Asset Allocation is The process of dividing your funds among different classes of investments such as stock, bond, or real estate. You could further allocate your stock funds into value, growth, foreign, etc.

The defination and meaning of Asset Allocation is The process of determining how investment funds will be apportioned among different asset classes, such as stocks, bonds, and cash reserves. Many financial advisers believe that the mix of asset classes has a greater impact on long-term portfolio results than does the performance of any individual investment.

The defination and meaning of Asset Allocation is The process of diversifying the investments in different kinds of assets such as stocks, bonds, real estate, cash in order to optimize risk.

The defination and meaning of Asset Allocation Fund is A fund that spreads its portfolio among a wide variety of investments, including domestic and foreign stocks and bonds, government securities, gold bullion and real estate stocks. Some of these funds keep the proportions allocated between different sectors relatively constant, while others alter the mix as market conditions change.

The defination and meaning of Asset Management Company (AMC) is A Company registered with SEBI, which takes investment/divestment decisions for the mutual fund, and manages the assets of the mutual fund.

The defination and meaning of Asset valuation is In the property market this expression is applied to the valuation of land and buildings or plant and machinery. The term is often used to describe an expert opinion of the worth of a property which may be incorporated into company accounts, where the ownership of the asset is not necessarily to be transferred but the valuation is required for the company takeovers, share flotation or mortgages.

The defination and meaning of Asset-backed securities is Bonds that represent pools of loans of similar types, duration and interest rates. Almost any loan with regular repayments of principal and interest can be securitized, from auto loans and equipment leases to credit card receivables and mortgages.

The defination and meaning of Assets is Everything a company or person owns, including money, securities, equipment and real estate. Assets include everything that is owed to the company or person. Assets are listed on a company's balance sheet or an individual's net worth statement.

The defination and meaning of Assign is To use life insurance policy benefits as collat-eral for a loan.

The defination and meaning of Assignee is Assignee is the person to whom the title, rights and benefits under a life policy are assigned.

The defination and meaning of Assignment is The transfer of a property interest, especially a lease, from one party to another.

The defination and meaning of Assignor is Assignor is the policyholder who transfers the title, beneficial interest and rights under the policy to another individual.

The defination and meaning of Associate Membership is A Chicago Board of Trade membership that allows an individual to trade financial instrument futures and other designated markets.

The defination and meaning of Associated Person (AP) is An individual who solicits orders, customers, or customer funds (or who supervises persons performing such duties) on behalf of a Futures Commission Merchant, an Introducing Broker, a Commodity Trading Adviser, or a Commodity Pool Operator.

The defination and meaning of Astrophysical Cycle is Any earthly cycle, such as a market cycle, that has been scientifically related to the physics of the planetary system.

The defination and meaning of Asymmetric information is An insured?s knowledge of likely losses that is unavailable to insurers.


The defination and meaning of At The Close is This is the price of the last trade of a stock when the market closes for the day. This price is of primary importance in our trading as where a stock closes in its range tells us much about the direction and momentum of the stock.

The defination and meaning of At-The-Money is An option is at-the-money if the strike price of the option is equal to the market price of the underlying security.

The defination and meaning of At-the-Money Option is An option with a strike price that is equal, or approximately equal, to the current market price of the underlying futures contract.

The defination and meaning of At-The-Open is This is a stock's trading price when a stock begins trading for the day. It may gap up, gap down, or open where it closed the previous session. Where a stock opens can be deceptive, especially if the stock gaps up or down significantly from the closing price.

The defination and meaning of Atrium is An entrance hall of a building, often rising through a number of storeys and containing lifts, reception areas and plants. Originally the hall or chief apartment of a Roman house.

The defination and meaning of Attained Age is It is your current age.Your attained age is one of the factors life insurance companies use to determine your premiums. As the older you are, the probability of death during the period of insurance cover i.e life insurance risk increases and so does the premium. Higher the risk, higher the premium.

The defination and meaning of Attenuation is The fractional part of reduced energy or lost power due to smoothing or filtering.

The defination and meaning of Audit is Examination and verification carried out by an outside agency (such as an accountancy firm or the tax authorities) of a taxpayer’s books and accountants and/or the general accuracy of returns and declarations, either as a routine operation, or where evasion is suspected.

The defination and meaning of Auditor is An auditor is an individual who conducts an examination and verification of a company's financial and accounting records and supporting documents.

The defination and meaning of Authorised Capital is The maximum equity capital a company can raise, which is mentioned in the Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association of the Company. However, share premium is excluded from the definition of authorized capital.

The defination and meaning of Authority is The Insurance Regulatory and Development authority, IRDA established under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 is the regulator for the insurance sector.

The defination and meaning of Auto insurance premium is The price an insurance company charges for coverage, based on the frequency and cost of potential accidents, theft and other losses.

The defination and meaning of Autocorrelation is The correlation between the values of a time series and previous values of the same time series.

The defination and meaning of Automatic coverage is An insurer agrees to cover accidents from all machinery of the same type as that specifically listed in the endorsement.

The defination and meaning of Automatic Investment Plan is A plan offered by most mutual funds where a small fixed amount is automatically deducted monthly from an investor's bank account and invested in the mutual fund of their choice.

The defination and meaning of Automatic Investment Plan (AIP) is An automatic investment plan (AIP) allows for the easy execution of a dollar cost averaging strategy by enabling the investor to save a set amount over a specific time interval. Examples: You can set up an AIP with your custodian whereby you invest $50 every week in a specific mutual fund.

The defination and meaning of Automatic Reinvestment is An investment option for mutual fund unit holders in which the proceeds from either the fund's dividends or capital gains, or both, are automatically used to buy more units of the funds.

The defination and meaning of Automatic treaty is An agreement whereby the ceding company is required to cede some certain amounts of business and the reinsurer is required to accept them.

The defination and meaning of Autoregressive is Using previous data to predict future data.

The defination and meaning of Auxiliary activities is A fixed place of business through which an enterprise exercises solely an activity which has, for the enterprise, a preparatory or auxiliary character, is, under tax treaties generally, deemed not to be a permanent establishment. The decisive criterion is whether the activity of the fixed place of business in itself forms an essential and significant part of the activity of the enterprise as a whole.

The defination and meaning of Auxiliary company is Company which is part of a group of companies and which supplies auxiliary services to group companies.

The defination and meaning of Average adjusters is A name applied to claims adjusters in the field of marine insurance.

The defination and meaning of Average Balance Volume Line is A simple moving average applied to the tick volume based on a comparison of the current and previous period's closes.

The defination and meaning of Average Daily Volume is Average number of shares traded per day over a specified period.

The defination and meaning of Average P/E Ratio is Average price/earnings ratio of stocks owned by a mutual fund.

The defination and meaning of Average Tax Rate is The rate calculated by dividing the total tax liability by the entity's taxable income.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Averages and Indices is Statistical tools that measure the state of the stock market or the economy, based on the performance of stocks, bonds or other components. Examples are the S&P/TSX Venture Composite Index, the S&P/TSX Composite Index, the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Consumer Price Index.

The defination and meaning of Averaging Down is Buying more of a security at a price that is lower than the price paid for the initial investment. The aim of averaging down is to reduce the average cost per unit of the investment.

The defination and meaning of Aviation insurance is Commercial airlines hold prop-erty insurance on aeroplanes and liability insurance for negligent acts that result in injury or property damage to passengers or others. Damage is covered on the ground and in the air. The policy limits the geographical area and individual pilots covered.

The defination and meaning of Avoidance is A term that is difficult to define but which is generally used to describe the arrangement of a taxpayer's affairs that is intended to reduce his tax liability and that although the arrangement could be strictly legal it is usually in contradiction with the intent of the law it purports to follow. Cf. evasion

The defination and meaning of Back and Fill is See Consolidation.

The defination and meaning of Back End Load is The commission or charge paid when an investor exits from a mutual fund. They are basically imposed to discourage withdrawals.

The defination and meaning of Back Months is The futures or options on futures months being traded that are furthest from expiration. Bear One who believes prices will move lower.

The defination and meaning of Back office is The office location, or department, where the processing of financial transactions takes place.

The defination and meaning of Back Testing is Optimizing a moving average or trading strategy on historical data.

The defination and meaning of Back to back (or head and counter) credit is A documentary credit (counter) taken out by a seller (importer) to allow purchase of goods required to meet a sale covered under original (head) credit. Under this type of arrangement the first credit (head) can be offered in support of security to the importer’s bank. As applicant for the second credit (counter) the importer is responsible for reimbursing the bank for payment made under it, regardless of whether or not they are paid under the original credit. Should be distinguished from a transferable credit.

The defination and meaning of Back-End Load is Sales charge paid when selling a mutual fund (a.k.a. deferred load).

The defination and meaning of Back-Propagation Network is A feedforward multilayered neural network that is a commonly used neural network paradigm.

The defination and meaning of Back-Testing is A strategy is tested or optimized on historical data and then the strategy is applied to new data to see if the results are consistent.

The defination and meaning of Backtesting is Determining the results of using particular screening criteria, as if the screen had been run at some point back in time, and the selected stocks or funds were held for a predetermined time period and then sold.

The defination and meaning of Backwardation is In futures market, when a commodity is in shortage, causing near month contract to sell at a premium and distant month contract to sell at a discount i.e. spot price of the commodity is higher than the forward price

The defination and meaning of Bad debt is Debt which is unlikely to be paid. Bad debts may usually be treated as losses and written off against a reserve for such debts.

The defination and meaning of Baggage Cover is Baggage cover is a built-in insurance for baggage lost in travel. Though international and Gold cards offer it, all other cards may not. It is advisable for frequent travellers to look for this feature when choosing a credit card.

The defination and meaning of Bailment is A situation in which one has entrusted personal property to another.

The defination and meaning of Balance is The financial result of all completed transactions of a trading account.

The defination and meaning of Balance of Payment is A summary of the international transactions of a country over a period of time including commodity and service transactions, and gold movements.

The defination and meaning of Balance Sheet is A financial statement listing a company’s assets (what it owns) and liabilities (what it owes) as of a specific date, usually the last day of a company’s fiscal quarter. The difference between a company’s assets and liabilities is termed its net worth or shareholder’s equity.

The defination and meaning of Balance Transfer is Moving from one issuer to another with all unpaid credit card dues is called Balance transfer. To lure card holders away from their competitors in order to transfer their balances over to them and to ensure that their own customers stay within their fold, card issuers often offer attractive interest rates and payment facilities.

The defination and meaning of Balance Transfer Fee is This is the fee charged to a customer who is transferring an outstanding balance from one card to another.

The defination and meaning of Balanced Fund is Balanced fund include both equity and debt schemes, with 50-75 per cent in equity and the rest in debt.

The defination and meaning of Balanced Mutual Fund is A mutual fund that seeks a return that is a combination of capital appreciation and current income, generally by building a portfolio of bonds, preferred stocks and common stocks.

The defination and meaning of Balancing payment is A payment, normally from one or more participants to another, to adjust participants’ proportionate shares of contributions, that increases the value of the contributions of the payer and decreases the value of the contributions of the payee by the amount of the payment, in the context of CCA (Cost Contribution Arrangements).

The defination and meaning of Ballon Payment is The final payment on a debt, which is larger than the previous sums paid.

The defination and meaning of Bandhani is An Indian form of trading in which the contract price is not allowed to go beyond floor and ceiling prices, set on the first day, throughout the life of the contract, thus restricting excessive volatility

The defination and meaning of Bank is A financial entity that accepts deposits from the public and then gives this money as loans and advances to those who require funds. The bank typically earns money from taking deposits at a lower cost and then lending the money at a higher rate.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Bank fixed deposits is Deposits that are collected from investors by banks for a specific time period are known as bank fixed deposits or bank term deposits. These form the main area of raising funds for banks.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Bank guarantee is Contract between a bank as guarantor and a beneficiary in which the bank commits itself to pay a certain sum under certain, specified conditions. Thus, a demand guarantee is one in which the bank agrees to pay against the simple written demand of the beneficiary.

The defination and meaning of Bank Investment Contracts (BICs) is A negotiated-term deposit issued by a commercial bank.

The defination and meaning of Bank Rate is The rate at which a central bank is prepared to lend money to its domestic banking system.

The defination and meaning of Bank secrecy provisions is Provisions which require that a bank refuse to disclose information about its customers to third parties, including the tax authorities.

The defination and meaning of Bank to bank payment is A transfer of funds (airmail or cable) between remitter and beneficiary via the banking system.

The defination and meaning of Bankers to the Issue is Bankers to the issue, as the name suggests, carries out all the activities of ensuring that the funds are collected and transferred to the Escrow accounts. The Lead Merchant Banker shall ensure that Bankers to the Issue are appointed in all the mandatory collection centers as specified in DIP (Disclosure and Investment Protection) Guidelines 2000. The LM also ensures follow-up with bankers to the issue to get quick estimates of collection and advising the issuer about closure of the issue, based on the correct figures.

The defination and meaning of Banker’s acceptance is A bill of exchange accepted by a bank usually for the purpose of financing a sale of goods to or by the bank’s customer. The bill may be drawn, for example, by an exporter on the importer’s bank and be sold on the open market at a discount.

The defination and meaning of Bar Chart is Used to plot price movements using vertical bars indicating price ranges.

The defination and meaning of Bare shell is Depicts the condition of any property after completion of construction activity and installations of basic building services. A bare shell includes basic flooring - tiled, mosaic, cement or granite and plastered walls. Apart from this, pantry and toilet facilities may also be operational in such condition.

The defination and meaning of Barter is The direct exchange of goods and/or services for other goods and/or services without the use of money and without the involvement of a third party. Barter is an important means of trade with countries using currency that is not readily convertible.

The defination and meaning of Base is This chart pattern is formed after a decline by a considerable amount of trading occurring within a relatively narrow price range. The formation is completed when an upside breakout occurs.

The defination and meaning of Base company is Company situated in a low-tax or non-tax country (i.e. tax haven), which is used to shelter income and reduce taxes in the taxpayer's home country. Base companies carry on certain activities on behalf of related companies in high-tax countries (e.g. management services) or are used to channel certain income, such as dividends, interest, royalties and fees.

The defination and meaning of Base cost is Term used in capital gains tax legislation to denote the cost of an asset to an owner.

The defination and meaning of Base currency is In terms of foreign exchange trading, currencies are quoted in terms of a currency pair. The first currency in the pair is the base currency. The base currency is the currency against which exchange rates are generally quoted in a given country. Examples: USD/JPY, the US Dollar is the base currency; EUR/USD, the EURO is the base currency.

The defination and meaning of Base interest rate(benchmark interest rate) is A minimal interest rate set and published by commercial banks for accumulating interest on different credit types.

The defination and meaning of Basic health insurance policy is Hospital insur-ance, surgical insurance, and regular medical expense insurance.

The defination and meaning of Basic rent is A monthly rental net of maintenance and interest costs charged or quoted by landlords for any property. The base rent comprises of only the payment made for usage of the subject property under a lease agreement. Imputed costs such as holding costs, fit out costs and building service charges are not usually included in the base rent.

The defination and meaning of Basing is This occurs when a stock trades sideways in various signature patterns (e.g., cup with handle, saucer base, flat base) while it is under accumulation prior to its next move up. We look for these stocks as they can lead to explosive moves out of the bases.

The defination and meaning of Basis is The difference between the current cash price and the futures price of the same commodity. Unless otherwise specified, the price of the nearby futures contract month is generally used to calculate the basis.

The defination and meaning of Basis of Allocation/Basis of Allotment is After the closures of the issue, the bids received are aggregated under different categories i.e., firm allotment, Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs), Non-Institutional Buyers (NIBs), Retail, etc. The over subscription ratios are then calculated for each of the categories as against the shares reserved for each of the categories in the offer document. Within each of these categories, the bids are then segregated into different buckets based on the number of shares applied for. The over subscription ratio is then applied to the number of shares applied for and the number of shares to be allotted for applicants in each of the buckets is determined. Then, the number of successful allottees is determined. This process is followed in case of proportionate allotment. In case of allotment for QIBs, it is subject to the discretion of the post issue lead manager.

The defination and meaning of Basis Point is The security profit change of 0.01%. E.g. the decrease of an interest rate from 5% to 4.5%, means the loss of 50 basis points.

The defination and meaning of Basis Point is .01 percent. Used to measure changes in yields of bonds.
Fixed Income, Bonds

The defination and meaning of Basis Points is The measure of yields on bonds and notes; one basis point equals 0.01% of yield.

The defination and meaning of Basket Trades is Large transactions made up of a number of different stocks.

The defination and meaning of Bayana is An Indian term used to denote the token money given to the landlord to informally freeze negotiations on a particular property, after the initial terms and conditions have been formalised.

The defination and meaning of Bayes Decision Rule is A rule that states the strategy chosen from those available is that for which the expected value of payoff is the greatest.

The defination and meaning of Bear is A market participant counting on the market price decrease; a market operator, a trader or an investor who speculates for the fall.

The defination and meaning of Bear Market is A longer period of time when prices in the market are generally declining. Bear markets typically are much shorter-lived than bull markets, but are usually more severe given the time period involved. We try to play corrections and bear markets to the downside as they can generate tremendous returns in a short time period.

The defination and meaning of Bear Spread is In most commodities and financial instruments, the term refers to selling the nearby contract month and buying the deferred contract to profit from a change in the price relationship.

The defination and meaning of Bear Trap is A false signal which indicates that the rising trend of a stock or index has reversed when in fact it has not.

The defination and meaning of Bearer securities is Stocks, bonds, etc. in which ownership can be transferred from one holder to another without registration of the transaction by the issuing company, that is, title passes with delivery.

The defination and meaning of Bellwether is A stock viewed as a leader in the market, e.g. "as GM goes, so goes the market." Also a bellwether or benchmark issue in the cash bond market, e.g. the most recently auctioned 10-year bond.

The defination and meaning of Benchmark is An unmanaged group of securities whose performance is used as a standard to measure investment performance. Commonly known as a market index. Some well-known benchmarks are the BSE Sensex and NSE Nifty.

The defination and meaning of Beneficial owner is A person who enjoys the real benefits of ownership, even though the title to the property is in another name. Often important in tax treaties, as a resident of a tax treaty partner may be denied the benefits of certain reduced withholding tax rates if the beneficial owner of the dividends etc is resident of a third country.

The defination and meaning of Beneficiary is Beneficiary is the person who receives the benefit of a policy in case of death during the term or the policyholder who receives the benefit on maturity.

The defination and meaning of Beneficiary Account is A beneficiary account is a Demat account in the name of an Individual (single or jointly). Such an account could also be in the name of a Corporate, a partnership firm, a society and a trust. It is similar to a bank account. This account is to be used for transacting in commodity balances held by the account holder at Exchange accredited warehouses. These commodity balances would have been – in a physical process set up – represented through a warehouse receipt.

The defination and meaning of Benefit Period is The time for which an insurance company covers the designated insured or dependents for the benefits.

The defination and meaning of Benefit test is In considering whether a company may be allowed to deduct, as an expense, payments made to a related company in a multinational group on account of expenses incurred by that related company in providing intra-group services, tax authorities would refuse a deduction unless a real benefit had been conferred on the company claiming the deduction.

The defination and meaning of Benefits in kind is Term which refers to earnings, usually from employment, other than in cash, as part of compensation for services rendered.

The defination and meaning of Berne Union is International Union of Credit and Investment Insurers.

The defination and meaning of Best method rule is Transfer pricing rule requiring that a taxpayer use the transfer pricing method that results in the most reliable measure of an arm's length price. This rule doesn't prescribe priorities between various methods.

The defination and meaning of Best-Efforts Underwriting is A type of underwriting where the investment firm acts as an agent. The firm agrees to use its best efforts to sell the new issue of securities, but does not guarantee the issuing company that the securities to be issued will be sold.

The defination and meaning of Beta is Beta is a measure of a company’s common stock price volatility relative to the market. The Market Guide Beta is the slope of the 60 month regression line of the percentage price change of the stock relative to the percentage price change of the S&P 500. Beta values are not calculated if less than 24 months of pricing is available.

The defination and meaning of Beta (Coefficient) is A measure of the market/nondiversifiable risk associated with any given security in the market. A ratio of an individual's stock historical returns to the historical returns of the stock market. If a stock increased in value by 12% while the market increased by 10%, the stock's beta would be 1.2.

The defination and meaning of Better-Price-Limit Orders is An order with a limit price better than the best price on the opposite side of the market. A better-priced buy order has a limit price higher than the best offering. A better-priced sell order has a limit price lower than the best bid. These are available only at the opening.

The defination and meaning of Bias is The difference between the expected value of an estimator and the actual value to be estimated.

The defination and meaning of Bid is The highest price a buyer is willing to pay for a stock. When combined with the ask price information, it forms the basis of a stock quote.

The defination and meaning of Bid is The lowest price anyone wants to sell the security for at a given time.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Bid (buying)  rate is Exchange rate at which dealers are prepared to buy foreign exchange in the market from other dealers, and at which potential sellers are therefore able to sell foreign exchange to those dealers.

The defination and meaning of Bid and Ask is Highest price and lowest price that an investor will pay for a tradable.

The defination and meaning of Bid Or Sell Price is The price at which a mutual fund's shares are redeemed (bought back) by the fund. The bid or redemption price is the current net asset value per share, less any redemption fee or back-end load.

The defination and meaning of Bid Price is The highest price at which a dealer is willing to buy commodities

The defination and meaning of Bid Size is The aggregate size in board lots of the most recent bid to buy a particular security.

The defination and meaning of Bid – Offer/Ask spread is The difference between the price at which a dealer is willing to buy ( Bid ) and sell (Offer/Ask ) a commodity. Bid will be lower of the two prices and offer price the higher. Also known as impact cost.

The defination and meaning of Bid-Ask Spread is The difference between the bid and the ask for a security at a given time.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Bid/tender bond is Provides an assurance of the intention of the party submitting a tender (i.e.the principal) to sign a contract if their tender is accepted. Usually takes the form of a bank guarantee.

The defination and meaning of Big figure is The first two or three digits of a foreign exchange price or rate. Examples: USD/JPY rate of 78.05/10 the big figure is 78. USD/INR price of 46.25/30 the big figure is 46.

The defination and meaning of Bilateral advance pricing arrangement  (bapa) apa is Involving two or more tax authorities

The defination and meaning of Bill of Exchange is A negotiable instrument that represents an unconditional demand for payment. Together with the Bill of Lading it forms the basis for the
documentary collection procedures and together with the exporter’s commercial invoice it can be used to charge the importer for the goods.
Defined by the Bill of Exchange Act as: ‘An unconditional order in writing, addressed by one person to another, signed by the person giving it requiring the person to whom it is addressed to pay on demand, or at a fixed or determinable future time, a sum certain in money to or to the order of a specified person, or to a bearer’. A bill is signed by a drawer and addressed to a drawee, who becomes the acceptor by writing their name across the face of the bill. The person to whom the bill is payable is referred to as the payee.

The defination and meaning of Bill Of Material is A parts list of material accompanying a structural drawing.

The defination and meaning of Billing Cycle is The interim days between the last statement and the current statement sent to a cardholder. Billing cycles are typically one month long.

The defination and meaning of Billing Statement is Credit card issuers send a monthly statement to cardholders that summarizes purchases made and payments due, balance credits and finance charges. If a credit card offers its users a rewards program, then the statement also contains the updated log of points earned.

The defination and meaning of Bimodal Distribution is In which observations are displayed as having two distinct peaks.

The defination and meaning of Bind is In property and liability insurance, the agent customarily is given the authority to accept offers from prospective insureds without consulting the insurer; in such cases, the agent is said to bind the insurer.

The defination and meaning of Binder is Temporary authorization of coverage issued prior to the actual insurance policy.

The defination and meaning of BIS is Bureau of Indian Standards.

The defination and meaning of Black Box is A proprietary, computerized trading system whose rules are not disclosed or readily accessible.

The defination and meaning of Black Scholes Option Pricing Model is A model used to estimate the price of an option.

The defination and meaning of Black-Scholes Model is A mathematical model used to calculate the theoretical price of an option.

The defination and meaning of Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model is A model developed to estimate the market value of option contracts.

The defination and meaning of Blank endorsement is An endorsement in blank specifies no endorsee and a bill so endorsed becomes payable to bearer and may be negotiated by delivery. When a bill has been endorsed in blank any holder may convert the blank endorsement into a special endorsement by writing above the endorser’s signature a direction to pay the bill to the order of himself, or some other person.

The defination and meaning of Blanket bond is A fidelity bond that covers all employees of a given class and may also cover perils other than infidelity.

The defination and meaning of Blanket coverage is Insurance coverage for more than one item of property at a single location, or two or more items of property in different locations.

The defination and meaning of Block Trade is A single purchase or sale of a stock involving 10,000 or more shares.

The defination and meaning of Block Trades is Large transactions of a particular stock sold as a unit.

The defination and meaning of Blow Off is A sharp price rise, accompanied by extraordinary volume; usually the culmination of an extended advance, leading to a sharp reaction.

The defination and meaning of Blow-off top is A steep and rapid increase in price followed by a steep and rapid drop. This is an indicator seen in charts and used in technical analysis of stock price and market trends.

The defination and meaning of Blue Chip Stocks is Stocks of leading and nationally known companies that offer a record of continuous dividend payments and other strong investment qualities.

The defination and meaning of Blue Chips is Large, stabile companies.

The defination and meaning of Bluechip Fund is Mutual fund that invests in blue chip stocks. Typically a growth fund.

The defination and meaning of Board Lot is A standard trading unit as defined in UMIR (Universal Market Integrity Rules). The board lot size of a security on Toronto Stock Exchange or TSX Venture Exchange depends on the trading price of the security, as follows: Trading price per unit is less than $0.10 - board lot size is 1,000 units  Trading price per unit is $0.10 to $0.99 - board lot size is 500 units  Trading price per unit is $1.00 or more - board lot size is 100 units

The defination and meaning of Board of Trade Clearing Corporation is An independent corporation that settles all trades made at the Chicago Board of Trade acting as a guarantor for all trades cleared by it, reconciles all clearing member firm accounts each day to ensure that all gains have been credited and all losses have been collected, and sets and adjusts clearing member firm margins for changing market conditions. Also referred to as clearing corporation. See Clearinghouse.

The defination and meaning of Boiler and machinery insurance is Often called Equipment Breakdown, or Systems Breakdown insurance. Commercial insurance that covers damage caused by the malfunction or breakdown of boilers, and a vast array of other equipment including air conditioners, heating, electrical, telephone, and computer systems. Prevention of loss is emphasized even more than indemnification of loss.

The defination and meaning of Bollinger bands is Bollinger Bands plot trading bands above and below a simple moving average. The standard deviation of closing prices for a period equal to the moving average employed is used to determine the band width. This causes the bands to tighten in quiet markets and loosen in volatile markets. The bands can be used to determine overbought and oversold levels, locate reversal areas, project targets for market moves, and determine appropriate stop levels. The bands are used in conjunction with indicators such as RSI, MACD histogram, CCI and Rate of Change. Divergences between Bollinger bands and other indicators show potential action points. As a general guidline, look for buying opportunities when prices are in the lower band, and selling opportunities when the price activity is in the upper band.

The defination and meaning of Bond is A debt investment with which the investor loans money to an entity (company or government) that borrows the funds for a defined period of time at a specified interest rate.

The defination and meaning of Bond Fund is A mutual fund whose portfolio consists primarily of corporate, municipal or government bonds. These funds generally emphasize income rather than growth.

The defination and meaning of Bond Long-Term IOU is Whereby the holder (lender or buyer) is promised to receive fixed payments over a pre-specified time period. Corporate bonds are one of the available instruments that companies can resort to for their financing needs.
Fixed Income, Bonds

The defination and meaning of Bond Par Value is The face value that is to be returned to a bondholder at maturity.
Fixed Income, Bonds

The defination and meaning of Bond Rating is A system of evaluating the probability of whether a bond issuer will default. Standard and Poor's Corp, Moody's Investors Services, CRISIL, ICRA, CARE, among other firms, analyze the financial stability of both corporate and government bond issuers. Ratings range from AAA or Aaa (extremely unlikely to default) to D (currently in default). Bonds rated BBB or below by S&P or Baa or below by Moody's are not considered to be of investment grade. Mutual funds generally restrict their bond purchases to issues of certain quality ratings, which are specified in their prospectuses.

The defination and meaning of Bond warrant is The document of title to goods being held in bond storage.

The defination and meaning of Bonds is A long-term debt security with a stated interest rate and fixed due dates, issued by a corporation or a government, when interest and principal must be paid. There are many variations.

The defination and meaning of Bonus is The additional sum that the policyholder will get during the term of the insurance plan or at maturity of the plan, provided he has paid all premium amounts due for a specified minimum number of years. Bonus is the amount added to the basic sum assured under a with-profit life insurance policy.

The defination and meaning of Bonus Issues is They are the shares issued to capitalize on the reserves and surplus of the company without charging the shareholders. From the accounting perspective it involves a debit to the free reserves and a credit to the share capital.

The defination and meaning of Book is An electronic record of all pending buy and sell orders for a particular stock.

The defination and meaning of Book Building is In a book building offer, the syndicate members decide the price range and the people decide the price of the issue based on a tender method.

The defination and meaning of Book Entry Securities is Electronically recorded securities that include each creditor's name, address, Social Security or tax identification number, and dollar amount loaned. (I.e., no certificates are issued to bond holders; instead the transfer agent electronically credits interest payments to each creditor's bank account on a designated date.)

The defination and meaning of Book of business is Total amount of insurance on an insurer?s books at a particular point in time.

The defination and meaning of Book Running Lead Manager (BRLM) is In the pre-issue process, the Lead Manager (LM) takes up the due diligence of company’s operations/ management/ business plans/ legal etc. Other activities of the LM include drafting and design of Offer documents, prospectus, statutory advertisements and memorandum containing salient features of the prospectus. The BRLMs shall ensure compliance with stipulated requirements and completion of prescribed formalities with the Stock Exchanges, RoC and SEBI including finalization Prospectus and RoC filing. Appointment of other intermediaries viz., Registrar(s), Printers, Advertising Agency and Bankers to the Offer is also included in the pre-issue processes. The LM also draws up the various marketing strategies for the issue The post issue activities including management of escrow accounts, coordinate non-institutional allocation, intimation of allocation and dispatch of refunds to bidders etc are performed by the LM. The post Offer activities for the Offer will involve essential follow-up steps, which include the finalization of trading and dealing of instruments and dispatch of certificates and demat of delivery of shares, with the various agencies connected with the work such as the Registrar(s) to the Offer and Bankers to the Offer and the bank handling refund business. The merchant banker shall be responsible for ensuring that these agencies fulfill their functions and enable it to discharge this responsibility through suitable agreements with the Company.

The defination and meaning of Book to Bill Ratio is The ratio of a company’s new orders to shipments in the same period. A book to bill ratio greater than 1.0 indicates sales growth. Ratios less than 1.0 reflect shrinking sales. Used mostly in the semiconductor industry.

The defination and meaning of Book value is The value of individual asset as recorded in the accounting records of a taxpayer, calculated as actual cost less allowances for any depreciation.

The defination and meaning of Booked Orders is Orders that do not trade immediately upon entry. These orders are also known as outstanding orders.

The defination and meaning of Borrower is A person or an entity that takes money from someone else for various purposes. The borrower uses the money for the specified time duration and at the end of the period returns the money to the lender. For the usage of these funds there will be a payment called interest.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Borrower category is Defining the status of a borrower as salaried or self-employed.

The defination and meaning of Bottom is The low point in a down move.

The defination and meaning of Bottom Line is After-tax earnings. Literally, the bottom line on an income statement (a.k.a. net income or profit).

The defination and meaning of Bottom Reversal is The change in the direction of price movement/trend which occurs at stock market bottoms.

The defination and meaning of Bought Deal is Rather than simply acting as an agent, an investment bank or other underwriters directly purchase securities from the issuer, usually at a discount to the market price, and then sells them to investors.

The defination and meaning of Bought Out Deal is An underwriter has a commitment to buy all the shares, from a company and becomes financially responsible for selling them. Also called firm allotment.

The defination and meaning of Bought-Deal Underwriting is A type of underwriting where the brokerage firm acts as principal. The brokerage firm risks its own capital to purchase all of the securities to be issued. If the price of the securities decreases before the brokerage firm has had a chance to resell the securities to its clients, the firm absorbs the loss.

The defination and meaning of Bounce is This occurs when a stock hits support in the form of an old high, a moving average, a trend line, or a combination of these, and moves up sharply. It is like dropping a ball onto a concrete sidewalk-the sidewalk is hard support and the ball bounces sharply. Not all support is strong enough for a bounce-we look for old tops (highs on the way up), breakout points (they act as resistance until the breakout-if the breakout is on good volume, it should act as support and give you a bounce). If money flow is good and the market is not tanking, we usually see a bounce off of this solid support.

The defination and meaning of Box Spread is Option arbitrage in which a profitable position is established with no risk. One spread is established with call options. The other spread is established using put options.

The defination and meaning of Bracketing is A trading range market or a price region that is non-trending.

The defination and meaning of Brackets is Term used in connection with graduated system of taxation to refer, for example, to the slabs or slices of taxable income subject to particular rates of income tax.

The defination and meaning of Branch tax is Tax imposed on branches of foreign companies in addition to the normal corporate income tax on the branch's income. This is equivalent to the tax on dividends which would be due if the branch had been a subsidiary of the foreign company and had distributed its profit as dividends.

The defination and meaning of Breach of contract is An act, or omission, contrary to enforce specific performance to rescind the contract and / or to claim damages, the remedy available depending upon the nature of the breach.

The defination and meaning of Breadth is A measurement calculated by comparing the number of advancing stocks to the number declining. The more net advances seen in an up market, the greater its breadth; vice versa for down markets.

The defination and meaning of Breadth Ratio is Computed by dividing the number of advances by the number of declines over a given time period, usually a day or a week.

The defination and meaning of Breakaway Gap is Usually, a high-volume move out of a consolidation pattern. The strength of buying is sufficient to cause the security to jump to higher levels without trading at the intervening prices. A strong, sustained up move is normally indicated.

The defination and meaning of Breakdown is A price drop below a significant support level or out of a consolidation pattern. Caused by sellers overwhelming buyers, it usually signals either the beginning or the resumption of a downtrend.

The defination and meaning of Breakout is A point when the stock’s price moves above resistance or below support. When a stock exits the boundaries of an area pattern, or rises above or below support and resistance lines. A technical analysis term, used to indicate a rise in a stock’s price above its resistance level (such as its previous high price) or drop below its support level (commonly the last lowest price.) The assumption is that the stock will continue to move in the same direction following the breakout, which generates a buy or sell signal.

The defination and meaning of Breakout Tests is We often write about stocks that test their breakout prices. Stocks breaking to new highs or out of consolidations often come back to test the breakout point before continuing with the breakout. This is most likely due to certain investors taking profits. If the breakout is a strong one, buyers come back in at some point before the stock falls below the breakout. This starts the stock back up on the next leg. This test can happen the next day, or it can happen after a week of upward movement. That is why we advise those in on the breakout move to watch for a test. If the stock has had a good move, you don?t want to lose profit on a big test-you can always get back in when the stock moves back up. For a small test soon after the break, you can ride it down, but you have to be careful the stock does not fall back within its previous trading range. Good breakout volume is a sign that this is less likely to happen. There are two plays on the breakout test: when the stock turns back up on good volume, or when the stock tops its breakout high. The former is riskier in that the breakout high can act as resistance, but we will play this move if the other indicators are good-volume, money flow, relative strength. The safer play is the break over the recent breakout high as this shows there is no resistance. If the volume is still good, the stock will most likely continue its breakout.

The defination and meaning of Bretton Woods is The site of the conference which in 1944 led to the establishment of the post war foreign exchange system that remained intact until the early 1970s. The conference resulted in the formation of the IMF. The system fixed currencies in a fixed exchange rate system with 1% fluctuations of the currency to gold or the dollar.

The defination and meaning of Bretton Woods Agreement is The treaty signed by the first members of the UN in 1944, which has set fixed exchange rates for major currencies giving central banks the right to intervene in foreign exchange markets as well as the price of gold at the level of 35 USD per ounce. The agreement has been in force until 1971.

The defination and meaning of Broadening Top is A reversal pattern marked by a succession of at least three generally higher highs alternating with successively lower lows. Occurs after a notable price rise. The pattern is completed by a third breakdown, normally to a significantly lower low.

The defination and meaning of Broker is An agent, who executes orders to buy and sell currencies and related instruments either for a commission or on a spread. Brokers are agents working on commission and not principals or agents acting on their own account. In the foreign exchange market brokers tend to act as intermediaries between banks bringing buyers and sellers together for a commission paid by the initiator or by both parties. There are four or five major global brokers operating through subsidiaries affiliates and partners in many countries.

The defination and meaning of Broker or Brokerage Firm is A securities firm or a registered investment advisor affiliated with a firm. Brokers are the link between investors and the stock market. When acting as a broker for the purchase or sale of listed stock, the investment advisor does not own the securities but acts as an agent for the buyer and seller and charges a commission for these services.

The defination and meaning of Broker's Deck is Orders physically held by the floor broker in the trading pit.

The defination and meaning of Broker-dealer is A firm that handles transactions for its customers and also purchases securities for its own account, selling them to customers.

The defination and meaning of Brokerage is It is the commission paid to the brokers for the purchase and sale of shares.

The defination and meaning of Brokers is Companies making public issues appoint brokers to procure subscription. The managers to the issue distribute prospectuses and application forms to the brokers. These brokers form a very important link in the distribution value chain of financial products.

The defination and meaning of Budget deficit is A situation when the expenditures planned by government exceed the revenue.

The defination and meaning of Building bye laws is Local authority control of building standards promulgated to regulate and control the usage of land, property and areas in cities and towns.

The defination and meaning of Building contract is A contract between an owner or occupier of land and a building contractor, setting forth the terms under which construction is to be carried out, basis of remuneration, time scale, and penalties, if any, for failure to comply with terms of the contract.

The defination and meaning of Bull is A market participant counting on the market price increase; a market operator, a trader or an investor who speculates for the rise.

The defination and meaning of Bull Market is A market in which stock prices are rising.

The defination and meaning of Bull Spread is In most commodities and financial instruments, the term refers to buying the nearby month and selling the deferred month to profit from the change in the price relationship.

The defination and meaning of Bull Trap is A false signal which indicates that the price of a stock or index has reversed to an upward trend, but ultimately proves to be false.

The defination and meaning of Bulletin Board System is Stocks that don’t qualify for NASDAQ listing are traded here or by Pink Sheets. Be careful.

The defination and meaning of Bullion is Bullion comprises of precious metals in the form of bars which are 99.5% pure minimum.

The defination and meaning of Bullion is The generic word for gold and silver.

The defination and meaning of Bullion coin is Bullion coin is a coin with symbolic face value and trades at a price with respect to its intrinsic value.

The defination and meaning of Bundesbank is Central Bank of Germany.

The defination and meaning of Burglary is The unlawful taking of property from within premises, entry to which has been obtained by force, leaving visible marks of entry.

The defination and meaning of Burglary and theft insurance is Insurance for the loss of property due to burglary, robbery or larceny. It is provided in a standard homeowners policy and in a business multiple peril policy.

The defination and meaning of Business centre is Commercial premises usable by the occupiers for a short period on a membership basis of the centre. Usually, a business centre charges for the full service accommodation, which is generally substantially higher than the rental of a standard office space and usually includes cost of HVAC, housekeeping, electricity, and security systems.

The defination and meaning of Business Day is Any day from Monday to Friday, excluding statutory holidays.

The defination and meaning of Business day and non-business day is Business day means any date that is not a non-business day.
Non-business day means any Saturday or Sunday or any bank holiday (not being a part holiday) within the meaning of ‘The Banking Act 1908’ and includes in respect of any bank premises every day on which those premises are not opened for business.

The defination and meaning of Business income insurance is Coverage for the reduction in revenue in the event of an insured peril.

The defination and meaning of Business interruption insurance is Commercial coverage that reimburses a business owner for lost profits and continuing fixed expenses during the time that a business must stay closed while the premises are being restored because of physical damage from a covered peril, such as a fire. Business interruption insur-ance also may cover financial losses that may occur if civil authorities limit access to an area after a disaster and their actions prevent customers from reaching the business premises. Depending on the policy, civil authorities coverage may start after a waiting period and last for two or more weeks.

The defination and meaning of Business park is A landscaped area containing high tech, other amenities for business purposes, as distinct from high-tech park or a science park. Building density is lower than would be usual in a traditional industrial estate. Business parks are preferentially located where motorway, rail and airport communications are within a short distance.

The defination and meaning of Business purpose test is Test used as a weapon against tax avoidance schemes. Artificial schemes which create circumstances under which no tax or minimal tax is levied may be disregarded if they do not serve a "business purpose".

The defination and meaning of Business pursuit is Continued or regular activity for the purpose of earning a livelihood.

The defination and meaning of Business Trust is A trust that usually generates cash flows from one business or operating company, unlike an investment fund, which generates income from a diversified pool or portfolio. The trust holds debt and equity interests of an operating business. Businesses that exhibit these characteristics may opt for a trust structure over a corporate structure to take advantage of tax efficiency.

The defination and meaning of Businessowners policy is A policy that combines property, liability and business interruption coverages for small to medium sized businesses. Coverage is generally cheaper than if purchased through separate insurance policies.

The defination and meaning of Butterfly Spread is The placing of two intradelivery spreads in opposite directions with the center delivery month common to both spreads.

The defination and meaning of Buy is An opening of a long and a closure of a short positions.

The defination and meaning of Buy and Hold is The acquisition of a tradable for the long term rather than quick turnover.

The defination and meaning of Buy Limit order is An order to execute a transaction at a specified price (the limit) or lower.

The defination and meaning of Buy On Close is To buy at the end of a trading session at a price within the closing range.

The defination and meaning of Buy on margin is The process of buying a currency pair where a client pays cash for part of the overall value of the position. The word margin refers to the portion the investor puts up rather than the portion that is borrowed.

The defination and meaning of Buy On Opening is To buy at the beginning of a trading session at a price within the opening range.

The defination and meaning of Buy Side Analyst is Analyst working for mutual fund or other institutional investor. We don’t usually get to see their reports.

The defination and meaning of Buy-back (compensation) is A form of countertrade under which exporters of, e.g. heavy equipment, technology, or plant facilities agree to purchase a certain percentage of the output of the new facility once it is in production. See also ‘Countertrade’.

The defination and meaning of Buy-In is If a broker fails to deliver securities sold to another broker on the settlement date, the receiving broker may buy the securities at the current market price of the stock and charge the delivering broker the cost difference of such a purchase.

The defination and meaning of Buy-in payment is A payment made by a new entrant to an already active CCA (Cost Contribution Arrangements) for obtaining an interest in any results of prior CCA activity.

The defination and meaning of Buy-out payment is Compensation that a participant who withdraws from an already active CCA may receive from the remaining participants for an effective transfer of its interests in the results of past CCA activities.

The defination and meaning of Buy/sell signals or indicators is Technical indicators which traders use to suggest times at which contracts might be taken on or liquidated. Examples: 1) Trend lines – A possible signal to either liquidate a long position or short a contract is triggered when up trending prices cross and go below an up trend line–example. Conversely, a possible signal to either liquidate a short position or assume a long position is triggered when down trending prices cross and go above a downtrend line. 2) Moving Average – A possible buy or sell signal is triggered when prices cross a moving average. 3) Multiple Moving Averages – In this case, two moving averages are used. One with a shorter averaging period than the other. The possible buy and sell signals are triggered when the shorter average crosses the longer–crossing in the upward direction triggers a possible buy while crossing in the downward direction signals a possible sell.

These are just three examples of what could be hundreds of indicators which traders have developed to aid them in deciding when to enter and exit the market. Traders use these various indicators individually and in combination. They use various indicators and combinations with various commodities and at various times. The practice of using these indicators is widely variable and range from the very simple to the highly complex with some traders using systems which combine many indicators.

The defination and meaning of Buying forward is Buying commodities at a specified price for delivery at a future date

The defination and meaning of Cable is The British pound/US Dollar exchange rate GBP/USD.

The defination and meaning of Calendar is This refers to upcoming IPOs and secondary offerings.

The defination and meaning of Call is An Option contract that gives the holder the right to buy the underlying security at a specified price for a certain, fixed period of time.

The defination and meaning of Call Option is An option that gives the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to purchase (“go long") the underlying futures contract at the strike price on or before the expiration date.

The defination and meaning of Cancelable is A health policy that can be cancelled by the insurer at any time for any reason.

The defination and meaning of Canceling Order is An order that deletes a customer's previous order.

The defination and meaning of Cancellation is When an IPO or secondary issue has difficulty getting investor interest to raise the desired capital, the company issuing the shares may cancel the offering in favor for some other form of financing.

The defination and meaning of Candlestick Charts is A charting method developed in Japan in the 1700s. The high and low for the time period are described as shadow and plotted as a single line. The price range between the open and the close is plotted as a box or rectangle on the line. If the market closes above the open, the body of the box is white or empty. If the close is below the open, the body of the box or rectangle is black.

The defination and meaning of Capacity is The maximum amount of insurance or life insurance that can be bought from a company.

The defination and meaning of Capital is To an economist, capital means machinery, factories and inventory required to produce other products. To investors, capital means their cash plus the financial assets they have invested in securities, their home and other fixed assets.

The defination and meaning of Capital assets is All property held for investment by a taxpayer.

The defination and meaning of Capital Budgeting is The decision-making process with respect to investment in fixed-assets. It involves measuring the additional cash flows associated with investment proposals and evaluating the viability of those proposed investment.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Capital expenditure is Expenditure on improvement rather than repair. Where expenditure is more closely connected with the business income-earning structure than its income earning capacity, it is capital expenditure.

The defination and meaning of Capital gain is A gain on the sale of capital asset.

The defination and meaning of Capital Gain or Loss is Profit or loss resulting from the sale of certain assets classified under the federal income tax legislation as capital assets. This includes stocks and other investments such as investment property.

The defination and meaning of Capital Gains Distribution is A distribution to investment company shareholders from net long-term capital gains realized by a regulated investment company on the sale of portfolio securities.

The defination and meaning of Capital Gains Distributions is Payments made usually at the end of the year to mutual fund shareholders of gains realized on the sale of securities in the mutual fund portfolio.

The defination and meaning of Capital Growth is A rise in market value of a mutual fund's securities, reflected in its net asset value per share. This is a specific long-term objective of many mutual funds.

The defination and meaning of Capital Lease Obligations is Balance sheet liability reflecting lease payments due for the term of the lease.

The defination and meaning of Capital loss is The loss from the sale of a capital asset.

The defination and meaning of Capital Losses is Losses resulting from selling at a loss.

The defination and meaning of Capital Pool Companies is The TSX Venture Exchange Capital Pool Company (CPC) program offers a unique listing opportunity that brings experienced management teams with proven public financing ability together with development-stage companies in need of capital and management expertise. Unlike traditional public companies, capital pools list and begin trading without an operating business. The nature of their business is to find and acquire a promising early-stage venture, and their treasuries are funded expressly for the search and due diligence process.

The defination and meaning of Capital Stock is All shares representing ownership of a company, including preferred and common shares.

The defination and meaning of Capital tax is A tax based on capital holdings, as opposed to a capital gains tax.

The defination and meaning of Capital Trust is A form of financial trust that differs from other trusts in that it looks more like a fixed income instrument than an equity issue. Capital trusts are generally issued by banks or other financial intermediaries. These investment vehicles trade like a debt instrument with $1,000 face value and trade with accrued interest.The business objective of capital trusts is to acquire and hold assets that will generate net income for distribution to unit holders. The trust's assets may consist of residential mortgages, mortgage co-ownership interests, mortgage-backed securities, other eligible investments, and other qualified debt obligations. Capital trust assets are usually acquired from and serviced by the issuing institution and/or its affiliates.

The defination and meaning of Capitalisation is At a given date the conversion into the equivalent capital worth of a series of net receipts, actual or estimated, over a period.

The defination and meaning of Capitalization Change is Any change in the issued and outstanding listed securities of an issuer. This change may involve the issuance, repurchase, or cancellation of listed securities or listed securities that are issuable upon conversion or exchange of other securities of an issuer.

The defination and meaning of Capitalization Effective Date is The date that the capitalization change is reflected in the issuer's share register, regardless of when it is reported to the Exchange.

The defination and meaning of Capitalization or Capital Structure is Total dollar amount of all money invested in a company, such as debt, preferred and common stock, contributed surplus and retained earnings of a company.

The defination and meaning of Capitalization Weighted Index is Largest companies have most influence on index price action.

The defination and meaning of Capitalize is To record capital outlays as additions to asset accounts, not as expenses.

The defination and meaning of Capped Indices is Indices for which there is a maximum relative weight by market capitalization for any one constituent. Any individual constituent of the index can represent no more than a specified percent of the index. The individual constituents of the S&P/TSX Capped Composite and S&P/TSX Capped 60 indices are capped at 10%, while the individual constituents of the S&P/TSX Capped sector indices are capped at 25%.

The defination and meaning of Capped-Style Option is A capped option is an option with an established profit cap. The cap price is equal to the option's strike price plus a cap interval for a call option or the strike price minus a cap interval for a put option. A capped option is automatically exercised when the underlying security closes at or above (for a call) or at or below (for a put) the Option's cap price.

The defination and meaning of Captive agent is A person who represents only one insurance company and is restricted by agreement from submitting business to any other company, unless it is first rejected by the agent?s captive com-pany.

The defination and meaning of Captive bank is Wholly owned subsidiary of a multinational group of companies whose purpose is to provide banking service to the group and those with whom the group deals. A captive bank is generally located in a tax haven in order to avail itself of the low capital requirements and freedom from exchange control.

The defination and meaning of Captive insurer is A type of insurer that is generally formed and owned by potential insureds to meet their own distinctive needs.

The defination and meaning of Captives is Insurers that are created and wholly-owned by one or more non-insurers, to provide owners with coverage. A form of self-insurance.

The defination and meaning of Card Holder Agreement is The fine print statement of terms and conditions that a card holder signs on getting a card.

The defination and meaning of Carpet areas is Areas of useable at any floor level as worked out in the plinth area minus the area occupied by the walls.

The defination and meaning of Carry Trade is Profiting on interest rate differentials. For instance, borrowing money at a relatively low short-term rate and lending it out a higher long-term rates.

The defination and meaning of Carrying Charge is For physical commodities such as grains and metals, the cost of storage space, insurance, and finance charges incurred by holding a physical commodity. In interest rate futures markets, it refers to the differential between the yield on a cash instrument and the cost of funds necessary to buy the instrument. Also referred to as cost of carry or carry.

The defination and meaning of Carryover is A process by which the deductions or credits of one taxable year that cannot be used to reduce tax liability in that year are applied against a tax liability in subsequent years (carryforward) or previous years (carryback).

The defination and meaning of Case management is A system of coordinating medical services to treat a patient, improve care, and reduce cost. A case manager coordinates health care delivery for patients.

The defination and meaning of Case of need is The drawer of a bill, and any endorser, may state the name of a party to whom the holder may resort in case of need, i.e. in case the bill is dishonoured by non-acceptance or non-payment. Such a party is called the referee in case of need.

The defination and meaning of Cash is A special term attached to an equity order that requires the trade to be settled either the same day or the following business day for cash.

The defination and meaning of Cash & Cash Equivalents is Cash in bank and all securities that can readily be converted to cash within three months or less.

The defination and meaning of Cash Advance Facility is The facility of using a credit card to withdraw cash from an ATM or Automatic Teller Machine called the Cash Advance facility.

The defination and meaning of Cash Advance Fees is On withdrawal of cash from an automatic teller machine using your credit card, cash advance fees are payable. Cash advance fees are very high and are mostly in the range of 2.5% per transaction subject to a minimum of around Rs.100. This facility should be used prudently, as the interest rate is very high, usually around 38%.

The defination and meaning of Cash against documents (CAD) is Indicated invoice amount to be paid by the buyer/importer at sight on presentation of relative commercial documents e.g. bill of lading, insurance certificate, etc.

The defination and meaning of Cash Balance Plan Definition is A cash-balance plan is a pension plan in which a worker's ultimate benefits are stated as a lump-sum cash amount instead of an annual payout. Employers guarantee their workers a set annual contribution and a set percentage of gain in their retirement accounts for every year they are employed. When employment ends, workers can take a cash payout on the balance and roll it over into a traditional individual retirement account, or they can take an annual annuity payout, based on that final account value. If the actual investments do better than the guaranteed gain, the employer benefits. If they do worse, the employer eats the loss.

The defination and meaning of Cash basis (cash method) is The accounting method which recognizes income and deductions when money is received or paid.

The defination and meaning of Cash Commodity is An actual physical commodity someone is buying or selling; e.g., soybeans, corn, gold, silver, Treasury bonds, etc. Also referred to as actuals.

The defination and meaning of Cash Contract is A sales agreement for either immediate or future delivery of the actual product.

The defination and meaning of Cash Dividend / Distribution is A dividend/distribution that is paid in cash.

The defination and meaning of Cash Flow is After tax income minus preferred dividends and general partner distributions plus depreciation, depletion, and amortization (Market Guide definition). See Operating Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow.

The defination and meaning of Cash Market is A place where people buy and sell the actual commodities; e.g., grain elevator, bank, etc. See Spot and Forward Contract.

The defination and meaning of Cash Settlement is Settlement of an option contract not by delivery of the underlying shares, but by a cash payment of the difference between the strike or exercise price and the underlying settlement price.

The defination and meaning of Cash Surrender Value is The amount that is available to the owner if a life insurance policy is surrendered any time before the maturity date. The amount represents the cash value minus surrender charges and any outstanding loans (and accrued interest) due upon cancellation of the policy.

The defination and meaning of Cash value is The savings element that accumulates with some life insurance policies.

The defination and meaning of Cash value option is An option in life insurance policies permitting the insured to take the cash value of the policy on surrender.

The defination and meaning of Catastrophe is Term used for statistical recording purposes to refer to a single incident or a series of closely related incidents causing severe insured property losses totaling more than a given amount.

The defination and meaning of Catastrophe bonds is Risk-based securities that pay high interest rates and provide insurance companies with a form of reinsurance to pay losses from a catas-trophe such as those caused by a major hurricane. They allow insurance risk to be sold to institutional investors in the form of bonds, thus spreading the risk.

The defination and meaning of Catastrophe deductible is A percentage or fixed monetary amount that a homeowner must pay before the insurance policy kicks in when a major natural disaster occurs. These large deductibles limit an insurer?s potential losses in such cases, allowing it to insure more property. A property insurer may not be able to buy reinsurance to protect its own bottom line unless it keeps its potential maximum losses under a certain level.

The defination and meaning of Catastrophe factor is Probability of catastrophic loss, based on the total number of catastrophes in a state (or region) over a 40-year period.

The defination and meaning of Catastrophe model is Using computers, a method to mesh long-term disaster information with current demographic, building and other data to determine the potential cost of natural disasters and other catastrophic losses for a given geographic area.

The defination and meaning of Catastrophe reinsurance is Reinsurance (insurance for insurers) for catastrophic losses. The insurance industry is able to absorb the huge losses caused by natural and man-made disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes and terrorist attacks because losses are spread among thousands of companies including catastrophe reinsurers who operate on a global basis.

The defination and meaning of Catchment area is The area of land from which finds its way into a particular watercourse, lake or reservoir.

The defination and meaning of CBD is Cash before delivery

The defination and meaning of CCI is Cotton Corporation of India

The defination and meaning of Ceding company is An insurer, also called a primary insurer, that passes on to other insurers some part of its risk under insurance policies it has accepted.

The defination and meaning of Central bank is A bank, administered by a national government, which regulates the behavior of financial institutions within its borders and carries out monetary policy.

The defination and meaning of Central business district is The functional centre around which the rest of a city is comparison shopping, office accommodation, leisure facilities, buildings for recreational use, public museums, art galleries and governmental functions. Generally the area of highest land values within a city.

The defination and meaning of Central management and control is Where the central management and control is located is a test for establishing the place of residence of a company. Broadly speaking, it refers to the highest level of control of the business of a company.

The defination and meaning of Certificate is The physical document that shows ownership of a bond, stock or other security.

The defination and meaning of Certificate Of Deposit is An interest-bearing, short-term debt instrument issued by banks and thrifts.

The defination and meaning of Certificate of Deposit (CD) is A time deposit with a specific maturity evidenced by a certificate.

The defination and meaning of Cession is A reinsurance term meaning that portion of a risk that is passed on to reinsurers by ceding compa-nies.

The defination and meaning of CFR is Cost and Freight. See also ‘Incoterms 2000’.

The defination and meaning of Chaikin oscillator is The Chaikin Oscillator is created by subtracting a 10 period exponential moving average of the Accumulation/Distribution line from a 3 period moving average of the Accumulation/Distribution Line.

The defination and meaning of Chance of loss is The long-term chance of occurrence or relative frequency of loss. Expressed by the ratio of the number of losses likely to occur compared to the larger number of possible losses in a given group.

The defination and meaning of Change is In a futures table, indicates the difference between the closing price on one trading day with the closing price on the previous day.

The defination and meaning of Changes in Stock List is Any modification to the list of tradable issues of an exchange. These modifications include: new listings, supplemental security listings, substitutional listings, deletions, name changes, and stock symbol changes.

The defination and meaning of Channel is In charting, a price channel contains prices throughout a trend. There are three basic ways to draw channels: parallel, rounded and channels that connect lows (bear trend) or highs (bull trend).

The defination and meaning of Channels is The area between two parallel trendlines, the upper trendline connecting most of the important price peaks or closes and the lower trendline connecting the important lows or closes. Price reversals are expected to occur when prices approach either boundary.

The defination and meaning of Chaos Theory is Describes the behavior of nonlinear systems. A subset of nonlinear dynamics analysis, chaos theory is a branch of mathematics focusing on irregular and complex behavior that has an underlying order. In the stock market, chaos theory seeks to forecast the future path of stock prices, including sudden changes that occur during periods of intense market activity.

The defination and meaning of Characteristic line is Characteristic Line is the technical term for the best fit or regression line that comes out of regression analysis. It is the line that represents the estimated linear relationship between the dependent variable (the thing we want to explain) and the independent variable (the thing we use to explain it).

Example: Suppose we want to explain the return on IBM by saying that it depends on the Dow Jones Industrial Index. This relationship between IBM and the Dow can be put into a linear equation like this:

RIBM = a + bRDow Jones 
The straight line with intercept a and slope b is the characteristic equation.

The defination and meaning of Charge Card is A card that requires you to make a full payment for all expenditure incurred by you by the due date Unlike credit cards, charge cards do not allow carrying forward a balance and so charges no interest.

The defination and meaning of Chartcraft method is A method of point & figure charting that dates back to 1947. It has a default boxsize of 0 and a reversal of 3. The boxsize of 0 sets a box value range from $.25 to $2, depending on the price of the issue. The reversal of 3 means that an X column will change to an O column when the price drops at least three boxes below the highest X in the current column. To reverse from Os to Xs, the price must rise three boxes above the lowest O in the current column.

The defination and meaning of Charting is charting refers to graphically illustrating commodity prices and how they change. Technical traders use many types of charts: Bar Charts, Candlestick Charts, Point and Figure Charts, and others.

The defination and meaning of Chartist is A person who attempts to predict prices by analyzing past price movements as recorded on a chart.

The defination and meaning of Charts is Graphical representations of price, volume and/or other data over a period of time. Commonly used in technical analysis are Bar Charts, Line Charts, Point and Figure Charts, Candlestick Charts and Market Profile.

The defination and meaning of Chat Room is A real-time message area usually dedicated to a particular topic.

The defination and meaning of Cheap is Colloquialism implying that a commodity is under priced.

The defination and meaning of Cheapest to Deliver is A method to determine which particular cash debt instrument is most profitable to deliver against a futures contract.

The defination and meaning of Chief risk officer (CRO) is New position within some organizations, denoting the responsibility for coordinating an enterprise risk management strategy.

The defination and meaning of Churning is A hesitation in a trend that usually leads to a reaction. Volume is relatively high with little price progress.

The defination and meaning of CIA is Cash in Advance.

The defination and meaning of CIF is Cost, Insurance & Freight

The defination and meaning of CIF (also c.i.f.) is Cost, Insurance and Freight. The exporter must procure and pay for insurance for the benefit of the importer. A documentary credit application necessarily reflects the insurance obligation, and the seller must present an insurance document in order to receive payment.

The defination and meaning of CIP is Carriage and Insurance Paid To... (named point).

The defination and meaning of Civil law is Legal proceedings directed towards wrongs against individuals and organizations. Breach of contract is an example of a civil wrong.

The defination and meaning of Claim is Notification to an insurance company that payment of an amount is due under the terms of the policy. It is a request for payment of the contractual benefits by the insurer that is made by the insured or the beneficiary.

The defination and meaning of Claim Amount is It is the amount payable on the maturity of a policy or when a claim is raised.

The defination and meaning of Claims management is The functions performed in handling loss claims

The defination and meaning of Claims-made policy is A form of insurance that pays claims presented to the insurer during the term of the policy or within a specific term after its expiration. It limits liability insurers? exposure to unknown future liabilities.

The defination and meaning of Class Of Options is Option contracts of the same type (call or put) and Style (American, European or Capped) that cover the same underlying security.

The defination and meaning of Classic Card is The branded card issued by VISA.

The defination and meaning of Classifier Systems is In artificial intelligence, these systems perform a type of machine learning that generates rules from examples.

The defination and meaning of Claused bill of lading is A claused, or foul bill of lading contains notations or remarks as to defects in the goods and/or packaging. See ‘Bill of lading’ and ‘Clean bill of lading’.

The defination and meaning of Cld. is Cleared (through customs).

The defination and meaning of Clean bill of lading is A bill of lading indicating that the goods were received in apparent good order and condition. A clean bill is one which contains no notations of
defect, damage or loss, and is signed by the carrier or its authorised representative. Note that a clean bill does not have to have any positive affirmation or mention to the effect, e.g. ‘clean bill’ or ‘merchandise in good order’. If a bill does contain a notation of damaged or missing merchandise, the bill of lading is called ‘claused’, ‘foul’ or ‘dirty’.

The defination and meaning of Clean bills is Bills of Exchange (drafts, cheques, etc.) drawn payable overseas and which are not accompanied by commercial documents.

The defination and meaning of Clear is The process by which a clearinghouse maintains records of all trades and settles margin flow on a daily mark-to-market basis for its clearing member.

The defination and meaning of Clear title is It is a title which is free from any reasonable doubt and also free from all encumbrances.

The defination and meaning of Clearance area is An area which is to be cleared of all buildings. Generally promulgated by way of a government declaration, which is normally followed by the acquisition of the land and the clearance of the area.

The defination and meaning of Clearing Day is Any business day on which the clearing corporation is open to effect trade clearing and settlement.

The defination and meaning of Clearing Margin is Financial safeguard to ensure that clearing members (usually companies or corporations) perform on their customers' open futures and options contracts. Clearing margins are distinct from customer margins that individual buyers and sellers of futures and options contracts are required to deposit with brokers. See Customer Margin.

The defination and meaning of Clearing Member is A member of an exchange clearinghouse. Memberships in clearing organizations are usually held by companies. Clearing members are responsible for the financial commitments of customers that clear through their firm.

The defination and meaning of Clearing Number is The trading number of the clearing Participating Organization or Member.

The defination and meaning of Clearinghouse is An agency or separate corporation of a futures exchange that is responsible for settling trading accounts, clearing trades, collecting and maintaining margin monies, regulating delivery, and reporting trading data. Clearinghouses act as third parties to all futures and options contracts–acting as a buyer to every clearing member seller and a seller to every clearing member buyer.

The defination and meaning of Client Order is An order from a retail customer of a Participating Organization.

The defination and meaning of Climax or Selling Climax is The culmination or end of a protracted period of selling, characterized by high volume, forced margin selling, extreme degrees of negative market breadth (also in prior years a late ticker tape)--and panic. A climax marks the end of one of the late phases of a decline with an abrupt reversal. While the market may again retreat--sometimes even to new lows--the climax is an obvious milepost to the beginning of the end of the bear market.

The defination and meaning of Clone Fund is A smaller version of a retail mutual fund, it is offered as a subaccount in a variable annuity. The daily price of a clone fund is different among variable annuities that carry it because each clone fund starts on a different date and with a base price of $10.

The defination and meaning of Close is The period at the end of the trading session. Sometimes used to refer to the Closing Range (or Range) 

The high and low prices, or bids and offers, recorded during the period designated as the official close

The defination and meaning of Close out price is Close out price is the rate at which settlement of short delivery of commodities is completed.

The defination and meaning of Close Relatives is As per section 6 of the Companies Act, a close relative acceptable as guarantor is any of the following: Father, mother (including step mother), son (including step son), son's wife, daughter (including step daughter), son's son, son's son's wife, son's daughter, son's daughter's husband, daughter's husband, daughter's son, daughter's son's wife, daughter's daughter, daughter's daughter's husband, brother (including step brother), brother's wife, sister (including step sister), wife/husband and sister's husband. However for consideration of these relatives as guarantors for the loan they should comply with the age and other norms of the company.

The defination and meaning of Closed Trades is Positions that have been either liquidated or offset.

The defination and meaning of Closed-End Fund is Investors buy shares from other share holders, and sell shares to other investors. Share price is determined by supply and demand for fund shares (as opposed to Net Asset Value for open-end Funds).

The defination and meaning of Closed-End Funds is A mutual fund that does not sell unlimited shares; one with a specific number of outstanding shares.

The defination and meaning of Closed-End Investment Fund is An investment trust that issues a fixed number of securities that trade on a stock exchange or in the over-the-counter market. Assets of a closed-end fund are professionally managed in accordance with the fund's investment objective and policies and may be invested in a wide range of financial instruments/assets. Like other publicly traded securities, the market price of closed-end fund securities fluctuates and is determined by supply and demand in the marketplace.

The defination and meaning of Closed-End Schemes is A mutual fund scheme in which the investors commit their money for a particular period.

The defination and meaning of Closing a position is The process of selling or buying a foreign exchange position resulting in the liquidation (squaring up) of the position.

The defination and meaning of Closing market rate is The rate at which a position can be closed based on the market price at end of the day.

The defination and meaning of Closing Price is The price at the end of the day's trading on a commodity market.

The defination and meaning of Closing Purchase is A transaction in which the purchaser's intention is to reduce or eliminate a short position in a given series of options.

The defination and meaning of Closing Range is A range of prices at which buy and sell transactions took place during the market close.

The defination and meaning of Closing Sale is A transaction in which the seller's intention is to reduce or eliminate a long position in a given series of options

The defination and meaning of Closing Transaction is An order to close out an existing open futures or options contract.

The defination and meaning of Clustering is Locating the presence of groups of vectors that are similar in some fashion.

The defination and meaning of Co-Branded Cards is A card that is offered by two organizations, one a lending institution, the other a non-financial group. Airlines, hotels and retail chains are known to offer co-branded cards. Special offers and discounts are the popular benefits of co-branded cards. Some non-financial groups that offer such cards also offer loyalty points on purchases made through the card.

The defination and meaning of Co-Manager is Most initial public offerings and secondary offerings have more than one underwriter. The manager controlling the offering is called the lead manager. Other underwriters are co-managers. The names of these underwriters appear on the bottom of the front page of the prospectus, with the most important manager appearing on the top left, and the co-managers arrayed from left to right in order of importance.

The defination and meaning of Co-operative banks is Banks that are operating in the economy under co-operative model of ownership. This is a situation where a number of people get together and form a co-operative and then run the bank jointly.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Coefficient is A constant used to multiply another quantity or series; as in 3 xand ax, 3 and a are coefficients ofx.

The defination and meaning of Coefficient of Determination is R-squared. The proportion of the variation in the data explained by the model.

The defination and meaning of Coincidence is In Gann theory, a projected reversal point.

The defination and meaning of Coinsurance is In property insurance, requires the policyholder to carry insurance equal to a specified percentage of the value of property to receive full pay-ment on a loss. For health insurance, it is a percentage of each claim above the deductible paid by the policy-holder. For a 20 percent health insurance coinsurance clause, the policyholder pays for the deductible plus 20 percent of his covered losses. After paying 80 per-cent of losses up to a specified ceiling, the insurer starts paying 100 percent of losses.

The defination and meaning of Collateral is A temporary assignment of the monetary value of a life insurance policy as security for a loan. In the event of default, the creditor would receive proceeds or values only to the extent of his interest.

The defination and meaning of Collecting bank is In a documentary collection, the bank acting as an agent for the seller’s bank in collecting payment or acceptance of a time draft from the buyer to be forwarded to the seller’s bank (the remitting bank).

The defination and meaning of Collision coverage is Portion of an auto insurance policy that covers the damage to the policyholder?s car from a collision.

The defination and meaning of COM Membership is A Chicago Board of Trade membership that allows an individual to trade contracts listed in the commodity options market category.

The defination and meaning of Combined Forecast is The weighted average of two or more forecasts.

The defination and meaning of Combined ratio is Percentage of each premium rupee a property/casualty insurer spends on claims and expenses. A decrease in the combined ratio means financial results are improving; an increase means they are deteriorating. When the ratio is over 100, the insurer has an underwriting loss.

The defination and meaning of Commercial general liability (CGL) is A broad commercial policy that covers all liability exposures of a business that are not specifically excluded. Coverage includes product liability, completed operations, premises and operations, and independent contrac-tors.

The defination and meaning of Commercial Invoice is A document containing a record of the transaction between a seller (exporter) and a buyer (importer), containing information such as a complete listing and description of the goods including prices, discounts and quantities, and the delivery and payment terms. A commercial invoice is often used by government’s to determine the true value of goods for the assessment of Custom duties, and must therefore conform to the regulations of the importing country.

The defination and meaning of Commercial lines is Products designed for and bought by businesses. Among the major coverages are boiler and machinery, business interruption, commer-cial auto, comprehensive general liability, directors and officers liability, fire and allied lines, inland marine, medical malpractice liability, product liability, professional liability, surety and fidelity, and workers compensation. Most of these commercial coverages can be purchased separately except business interrup-tion which must be added to a fire insurance (prop-erty) policy.

The defination and meaning of Commercial paper is Short-term, unsecured, and usually discounted promissory note issued by commercial firms and financial companies often to finance current business. Commercial paper, which is rated by debt rating agencies, is sold through dealers or directly placed with an investor.

The defination and meaning of Commercial umbrella is A liability policy designed to cover catastrophic losses.

The defination and meaning of Commission is Fee paid to an agent or insurance sales-person as a percentage of the policy premium. The percentage varies widely depending on coverage, the insurer, and the marketing methods.

The defination and meaning of Commission (or Round Turn) is The one-time fee charged by a broker to a customer when a futures or options on futures position is liquidated either by offset or delivery.

The defination and meaning of Commission agent is A foreign sales representative who is paid a percentage of the sales they generate.

The defination and meaning of Commission Fee is A fee charged by a broker for executing a transaction. Also referred to as brokerage fee.

The defination and meaning of Commodities is Products used for commerce that are traded on a separate, authorized commodities exchange. Commodities include agricultural products and natural resources such as timber, oil and metals. Commodities are the basis for futures contracts traded on these exchanges.

The defination and meaning of Commodity is An article of commerce or a product that can be used for commerce. In a narrow sense, products traded on an authorized commodity exchange. The types of commodities include agricultural products, metals, petroleum, foreign currencies, and financial instruments and indexes, to name a few.

The defination and meaning of Commodity Credit Corp. is A branch of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, established in 1933, that supervises the government's farm loan and subsidy programs.

The defination and meaning of Commodity Deposit Form (CDF) is The client has to fill up the Commodity Deposit Form (CDF) and submit the same to the warehouse along with the assayer's report after which the assayer gives a report of the quality of the commodities .The Commodity Deposit Form is available with the warehouse.

The defination and meaning of Commodity exchange is A commodity exchange is an association, or a company or any other body corporate organizing futures trading in commodities.

The defination and meaning of Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) is A federal regulatory agency established under the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Act, as amended in 1974, which oversees futures trading in the United States. The commission is comprised of five commissioners, one of whom is designated as chairman, all appointed by the President subject to Senate confirmation, and is independent of all cabinet departments.

The defination and meaning of Commodity Pool is An enterprise in which funds contributed by a number of persons are combined for the purpose of trading futures contracts or commodity options.

The defination and meaning of Commodity Pool Operator is An individual or organization that operates or solicits funds for a commodity pool.

The defination and meaning of Commodity spreads (or straddles) is Commodity spreads measure the price difference between two different contracts, usually futures contracts.

The defination and meaning of Commodity tax is Tax based on a selective number of commodities.

The defination and meaning of Commodity Trading Adviser is A person who, for compensation or profit, directly or indirectly advises others as to the value or the advisability of buying or selling futures contracts or commodity options. Advising indirectly includes exercising trading authority over a customer's account as well as providing recommendations through written publications or other media.

The defination and meaning of Common disaster clause is A life insurance clause stating what happens to life insurance proceeds if named beneficiaries die in a common accident.

The defination and meaning of Common law is The unwritten law that is based on custom, usage, and court decisions; different from statutory law, which consists of laws passed by legisla-tures.

The defination and meaning of Common Shares or Common Stock is Securities that represent part ownership in a company and generally carry voting privileges. Common shareholders may be paid dividends, but only after preferred shareholders are paid. Common shareholders are last in line after creditors, debt holders and preferred shareholders to claim any of a company's assets in the event of liquidation.

The defination and meaning of Common Stock is Shares of a publicly held corporation, usually includes voting rights. Common stock has lower priority in event of liquidation than preferred shares.

The defination and meaning of Comparable uncontrolled price (cup) method is A transfer pricing method that compares the price for property or services transferred in a controlled transaction to the price charged for property or services transferred in a comparable uncontrolled transaction in comparable circumstances.

The defination and meaning of Comparitor is A device of some kind that compares two inputs.

The defination and meaning of Compensating adjustment is An adjustment in which the taxpayer reports a transfer price for tax purposes that is, in the taxpayer's opinion, an arm's length price for a controlled transaction, even though this price differs from the amount actually charged between the associated enterprises. This adjustment would be made before the tax return is filed.

The defination and meaning of Compensation is Direct and indirect monetary and non-monetary rewards to employees.

The defination and meaning of Compensatory stock options is Options offered to employees as partial compensation for their services.

The defination and meaning of Competent authority (ca) is Forum to resolve disputes arising from the application and/or interpretation of a double tax treaty. Both treaty countries appoint a representative (frequently the Ministry of Finance or its authorized representative) as the CA to assist aggrieved taxpayers by acting as the official liaison with the foreign CA. The CA is generally indicated in the definitions sections of tax treaties.

The defination and meaning of Complete Fill is When an order trades all of its specified volume.

The defination and meaning of Completed operations coverage is Pays for bodily injury or property damage caused by a completed project or job. Protects a business that sells a service against liability claims.

The defination and meaning of Completion certificate/statement is A statement prepared by solicitors, usually those acting for a purchaser and a vendor respectively, following the conveyance of an interest in property, giving a schedule of sums received leading to a balance being the final amount due to the vendor. In some case the statement is prepared at a later date and may show a figure recoverable by the purchaser from the vendor.

The defination and meaning of Compound duty is A combination of both a specific rate of duty and an ad valorem rate of duty. Whereas specific duties are based on factors such as weight or quantity, ad valorem duties are based on the value of the goods.

The defination and meaning of Compound Interest is The ability of a fixed deposit in India to generate interest, which is then reinvested in order to generate further earnings is known as compound interest.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Compounding is Earning money on a principal investment and its interest, usually calculated on a monthly or yearly basis. Compounding is said to be one of the best ways to create wealth.

The defination and meaning of Comprehensive coverage is Portion of an auto insurance policy that covers damage to the policyholder?s car not involving a collision with another car (includ-ing damage from fire, explosions, earthquakes, floods, and riots), and theft.

The defination and meaning of Compulsory auto insurance is The minimum amount of auto liability insurance that is statutorily required.

The defination and meaning of Computerized Trading Reconstruction System is A Chicago Board of Trade computerized surveillance program that pinpoints in any trade the traders, the contract, the quantity, the price, and time of execution to the nearest minute.

The defination and meaning of Concealment is The failure of an applicant to reveal, before the insurance contract is made, a fact that is material to the risk.

The defination and meaning of Concurrent causation is A legal doctrine that says if two perils (one excluded and one not excluded) occur and cause a loss, coverage applies.

The defination and meaning of Concurrent loss control is Activities that take place at the same time as losses to reduce their severity.

The defination and meaning of Conditional contract is A contract, such as an insurance contract, requiring that certain acts be performed if recovery is to be made.

The defination and meaning of Conditional Offer is An offer to purchase securities depending on the effectiveness of a registration statement and the pricing of an IPO.

The defination and meaning of Conditional Receipt is This receipt is given to policy owners when they pay a premium at time of application. Such receipts bind the insurance company if the risk is approved as applied for, subject to any other conditions stated on the receipt.

The defination and meaning of Conditionally renewable is A policy that can be can-celled or have the premiums raised by the insurer on a specific anniversary date, subject to certain reasons written into the policy.

The defination and meaning of Conditions is Circumstances under which an insurance contract is in force. Breach of the conditions is grounds for refusal to pay the loss.

The defination and meaning of Conduit approach is A method whereby income or deductions flow through to another party

The defination and meaning of Conference Call is A multi-party telephone call hosted by a company, primarily for analysts, shortly after making an earnings announcement.

The defination and meaning of Confidence Factor is A measure of the degree of likelihood that a rule is correct, which may reflect the percentage of times that it has proven to be correct in the past or just a subjective measure of our confidence in its degree of reliability.

The defination and meaning of Confidence Level is The degree of assurance that a specified failure rate is not exceeded.

The defination and meaning of Confirmation is Occurs when the action of one indicator corroborates the action of another. The implication is confidence that the trend will continue. The lack of such confirmation is often called divergence.

The defination and meaning of Confirmation of
documentary credit is nan

The defination and meaning of Confirming bank is In documentary credit transactions, the bank which adds its own irrevocable undertaking for payment in addition to that given by the issuing bank. The confirming bank is usually located in the exporter’s country.

The defination and meaning of Congestion area is At a minimum, a series of trading days in which there is no or little progress in price. A period of time when a stock trades either below resistance, above support, or both.

The defination and meaning of Congestion Area or Pattern is A series of trading days in which there is no visible progress in price.

The defination and meaning of Consensus Estimate or Rating is The average of analysts individual earnings forecasts or buy/sell ratings.

The defination and meaning of Consequential damage endorsement is Coverage for losses incurred as a result of the failure of an insured object on the insured?s premises.

The defination and meaning of Consequential losses is Losses other than property damage that occur as a result of physical loss to a business for example, the cost of maintaining key employees to help reorganize after a fire.

The defination and meaning of Consideration is In an insurance contract, the specified premium and an agreement to the provisions and stipulations that follow.

The defination and meaning of Consolidated Fund of India is All revenues raised, interest earned and money borrowed by the government flow into it. All government expenditures, except from Contingency Fund and Public Account, are made from the Consolidated Fund of India.

The defination and meaning of Consolidated Short Position Report is A consolidated report that includes the total shares short (as of the trade date) and the net change from the previous report, for both TSX and TSX Venture Exchange listed issues. Under UMIR rule 10.10, all TSX and TSX Venture Exchange Participating Organizations and Members must report the firm's short position on a semi-monthly basis to TSX Datalinx. Non-clearing firms may report through the firm that is responsible for their clearing.

The defination and meaning of Consolidated tax return is A combined tax return in the name of the parent company filed by companies organized as a group.

The defination and meaning of Consolidation is Also known as a congestion period. A pause that allows participants in a market to reevaluate the market and sets the stage for the next price move.

The defination and meaning of Constructive dividend is A variety of payments whether in cash or in kind made by companies to shareholders or associated persons, which are not expressed as dividends, may nevertheless be regarded by the tax law as distributions of profits and treated for tax purposes as if they were dividends.

The defination and meaning of Constructive ownership is A taxpayer may be considered to own property or stock which he only indirectly owns.

The defination and meaning of Constructive total loss is Loss occurring when property is not completely destroyed but when it would cost more to restore it than it is worth

The defination and meaning of Consular Invoice is An invoice covering a shipment of goods certified by the consul of the country for which the merchandise is destined. The invoice is used by customs officials of the country to verify the value, quantity and nature of the merchandise imported to determine the import duty. In addition, the export price may be examined to ensure that dumping is not taking place.

The defination and meaning of Consumer Price Index (CPI) is US index, calculated once a month. It indicates the price dynamics of the basket purchased by an average consumer. One of the most important inflation indicators.

The defination and meaning of Consumer Stock is This is a category of stock of companies that produce consumer-oriented products like food, beverages, tobacco, and pharmaceuticals.

The defination and meaning of Consumption tax is Tax generally intended to fall on the ultimate consumption of goods and services.

The defination and meaning of contango is When prices rise progressively in consecutive months.

The defination and meaning of Contestable Clause is A provision in an insurance policy setting forth the conditions under which or the period of time during which the insurer may contest or void the policy.

The defination and meaning of Contingency insurance (or difference in conditions) is Insurance coverage taken out by one party to an international transaction to complement and fill in any gaps in the coverage taken out by the counterparty. Thus, the open account exporter on FOB Incoterms does not have an obligation to insure the goods during the main international transport, but may wish in any event to take out contingency insurance so that if the goods are lost or damaged there is no loss to the buyer (such a loss might lead to disagreements or disruption of commercial relations with the buyer, even if the seller was not legally at fault).

The defination and meaning of Contingent Beneficiary is Person or persons named to receive proceeds in case the original beneficiary is not alive also referred to as secondary or tertiary beneficiary.

The defination and meaning of Contingent Beneficiary Definition is A contingent beneficiary stands second-in-line to inherit assets such as a life insurance policy, a retirement plan or an annuity. Typically, the owners of such assets will designate their spouse as a primary beneficiary. But if both spouses die at the same time, their children, or trusts designated to act in their minor children's names, might stand as contingent beneficiaries.

As with primary beneficiaries, the assets of such accounts pass to contingent beneficiaries regardless of the dictates of a will and without passing through probate court. That may be less expensive, but it puts an added burden on account-holders to make sure their beneficiary arrangements are up to date at all times.

The defination and meaning of Contingent business income insurance is Coverage for losses that result from losses to a supplier or cus-tomer on whom the firm depends.

The defination and meaning of Contingent Deferred Sales Charge (CDSC) is A fee (or back-end load) imposed by certain funds on shares redeemed within a specific period following their purchase. These charges are usually assessed on a sliding scale, such as four percent to one percent of the amounts redeemed, with the fee reduced each year the units are held.

The defination and meaning of Contingent liability is Liability of individuals, corporations, or partnerships for accidents caused by people other than employees for whose acts or omissions the corporations or partnerships are responsible.

The defination and meaning of Continuation Chart is A chart in which the price scale for the data for the end of a given contract and the data for the beginning of the next contract are merged in order to ease the transition of one contract to the next.

The defination and meaning of Continuation Pattern is A consolidation that temporarily interrupts a rally or decline and sets the stage for another move in the same direction.

The defination and meaning of Continuous Disclosure is A company's ongoing obligation to inform the public of significant corporate events, both favourable and unfavourable.

The defination and meaning of Contract is An agreement embodying a set of promises that are enforceable by law.

The defination and meaning of Contract construction bond is A surety bond guaranteeing that the principles will complete their work in accordance with the terms of the construction contracts.

The defination and meaning of Contract Month is The month in which futures contracts may be satisfied by making or accepting delivery.

The defination and meaning of Contract of adhesion is A contract, such as an insurance contract, in which any ambiguities or uncertain-ties in the wording will be construed against the drafter (the insurer).

The defination and meaning of Contract of sale is This is an agreement between the seller and the buyer. Incoterms are embedded in the contract.

The defination and meaning of Contractors' Equipment floater is Insures mobile equipment, such as tractors, steam shovels, drilling equipment, etc., whether it is owned, leased, or bor-rowed.

The defination and meaning of Contracts without time element is Insure losses resulting from fire in which the loss cannot be measured either by direct damage by fire or in terms of elapsed time.

The defination and meaning of Contractual liability is Liability arising from contractual agreements in which it is stated that some losses, if they occur, are to be borne by specific parties.

The defination and meaning of Contrarian is Similar to value investor. Looks for stocks with prices beaten down out of proportion to fundamentals.

The defination and meaning of Contribution Percentage Definition is A contribution percentage is the portion of your paycheck that you can opt to put into your workplace retirement plan. It typically refers to tax-deferred contributions to a 401(k), a 403(b) or a SIMPLE IRA.

If your employer offers to match some percentage of your contributions up to some level -- say, a dollar-for-dollar match up to 4% of your salary -- you would be well-advised to contribute enough to get the full match.

The defination and meaning of Contributory negligence is Partial guilt or negligence in a civil lawsuit where both parties are to blame.

The defination and meaning of Control is The capacity of one person to ensure that another person acts in accordance with the first person's wishes, or the exercise of that capacity. The exercise of control by one person over another could enable individuals and corporations to avoid or reduce their tax liability. A company is usually regarded as controlling another company if it holds more than 50% of the latter company's voting shares. However, the definitions vary according to country and situation.

The defination and meaning of Convergence is A term referring to cash and futures prices’ tendency to come together (i.e., the basis approaches zero) as the futures contract nears expiration.

The defination and meaning of Conversion Arbitrage is Traders buy and sell two different securities (or synthetic securities), forcing equivalent prices for equivalent securities.

The defination and meaning of Conversion Factor is A factor used to equate the price of T-bond and T-note futures contracts with the various cash T-bonds and T-notes eligible for delivery. This factor is based on the relationship of the cash-instrument coupon to the required 6 percent deliverable grade of a futures contract as well as taking into account the cash instrument's maturity or call.

The defination and meaning of Conversion Privilege is The privilege some mutual funds give to their shareholders to use income or the capital gains to purchase additional shares of their fund without any sales charge.

The defination and meaning of Convertible is A term policy that can be converted to permanent coverage rather than expiring on a specific date.

The defination and meaning of Convertible Bond is A bond that can be exchanged for shares of stock.

The defination and meaning of Convertible Security is A security of an issuer (for example - bonds, debentures, or preferred shares) that may be converted into other securities of that issuer, in accordance with the terms of the conversion feature. The conversion usually occurs at the option of the holder of the securities, but it may occur at the option of the issuer.

The defination and meaning of Conveyance is A document transferring title to land from one person to another.

The defination and meaning of Corporate income tax is Income tax on the income of companies.

The defination and meaning of Corporation or Company is A form of business organization created under provincial or federal laws that has a legal identity separate from its owners. The shareholders are the corporation's owners and are liable for the debts of the corporation only up to the amount of their investment. This is known as limited liability.

The defination and meaning of Corporation shopping is Term sometimes used in addition to treaty shopping to denote the use of tax treaty provisions by interposing a company instead of a different form of association for which tax relief would not been available.

The defination and meaning of Corpus is Total amount of money invested by all investors in a scheme.

The defination and meaning of Correction is This occurs when an average falls 10% or more off of its high.

The defination and meaning of Correction Wave is A wave or cycle of waves moving against the current impulse trend's direction.

The defination and meaning of Correlation Coefficient is When two random variables X and Y tend to vary together. The measurement is given by the ratio of the covariance of X and T to the square root of the product of the variance of X and the variance of Y.

The defination and meaning of Correlogram is A numerical and graphical display of the test statistics of an autocorrelation diagnostic routine.

The defination and meaning of Correspondent bank is The foreign banks representative who regularly performs services for a bank which has no branch in the relevant centre, e.g. to facilitate the transfer of funds. In the US this often occurs domestically due to inter state banking restrictions.

The defination and meaning of Corresponding adjustment is An adjustment to the tax liability of the associated enterprise in a second jurisdiction made by the tax administration of that jurisdiction, corresponding to a primary adjustment made by the tax administration in a first tax jurisdiction, so that the allocation of profits by the two jurisdictions is consistent.

The defination and meaning of Cost Basis is The cost of a given share or group of stock shares.

The defination and meaning of Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) is Annual increases to Social Security benefits to offset the impact of inflation. Also Known As: Cost of Living Adjustment, COLA

The defination and meaning of Cost of risk is The sum of (1) outlays to reduce risks, (2) the opportunity cost of activities forgone due to risk considerations, (3) expenses of strategies to finance potential losses, and (4) the cost of reimbursed losses.

The defination and meaning of Cost of Sales is Cost of materials and labor required to produce products or services. Gross profit is sales minus cost of sales.

The defination and meaning of Cost-of-living rider is An endorsement that auto-matically increases the amount of coverage by the same percentage the Consumer Price Index has risen since policy issue.

The defination and meaning of Cost-to-repair basis is The cost to replace property after a loss but perhaps not with like materials and labor.

The defination and meaning of Count is A point and figure technique used to estimate a price objective or target--up or down. Calculations are based on the extent of prior sideways movements.

The defination and meaning of Counter-purchase is Counterpurchase is the agreement of an exporter to purchase a quantity of unrelated goods or services from a country in exchange for and approximate in value to the goods exported.

The defination and meaning of Countermove is A price bar showing movement opposite to the direction of the prior time period; a retracement.

The defination and meaning of Counterpart is A participant in a financial transaction.

The defination and meaning of Countertrade is All foreign trade transactions resulting from exporters’ commitments to take products from the importers or from their respective countries in full or part payment for their exports. Countertrade is typical of trade with East European and less developed countries, which often suffer from a lack of foreign exchange and/or credit facilities. Countertrade transactions include barter, buy-back or compensation, counterpurchase, offset requirements, and swap. See each of these respective terms.

The defination and meaning of Coupon is The interest rate stated on a bond when it's issued. The coupon is typically paid semiannually.

The defination and meaning of Coupon Interest Rate is The Interest to be annually paid by the issuer of a bond as a percent of per value, which is specified in the contractual agreement.
Fixed Income, Bonds

The defination and meaning of Coupon Rate is The interest rate on a bond.

The defination and meaning of covariance is A measure that reflects both the variance (volatility) of a stock’s returns and the tendency of those returns to move up or down at the same time relative to other stocks (their correlation). This is a way to see if two stocks tend to move up or down together and how big those movements usually are.

The defination and meaning of Cover is Purchasing back a contract sold earlier.

The defination and meaning of Coverage is Another word for insurance. Insurance companies use the term coverage to mean the rupee amount of insurance purchased.

The defination and meaning of Coverdell Education Savings Account is A type of account (previously called the Education IRA) created under the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, established exclusively for paying qualified education expenses of the designated beneficiary. Contributions are non-deductible and earnings are tax-free for qualified withdrawals.

The defination and meaning of Covered is Writing an option when the writer owns the underlying security, and writes the option on a one to one ratio with the stock. A short call is covered if the underlying security is owned. A short put is covered if the underlying security is also short in the account. A short call is covered if a long call of the same underlying security is owned in the same account with the same or lower strike. A short put is covered if a long put of the same underlying security is owned in the same account with a strike price equal to or greater than the strike of the short put.

The defination and meaning of Covered Call Option Writing is A strategy in which one sells call options while simultaneously owning an equivalent position in the underlying security or strategy in which one sells put options and simultaneously is short an equivalent position in the underlying security.

The defination and meaning of Covered Write is Writing a call against a long position in the underlying stock. By receiving a premium, the writer intends to realize additional return on the underlying common stock or gain some element of protection (limited to the amount of the premium less transaction costs) from a decline in the value of that underlying stock.

The defination and meaning of Crack Spreads is The spread between crude oil and its products: heating oil and unleaded gasoline plays a major role in the trading process.

The defination and meaning of Credit is The promise to pay in the future in order to buy or borrow in the present. The right to defer pay-ment of debt.

The defination and meaning of Credit Card is A card that entitles the holder to a revolving line of credit, which is determined by the users income. The days of credit one gets could range from 20 - 50 days calculated from the day of billing and not from date of purchase. You can chose to pay your entire dues at one go, or stagger them after paying the minimum amount due every month. Besides this, it entitles the member to plethora of benefits like travel discounts, discount on retail loans.

The defination and meaning of Credit derivatives is A contract that enables a user, such as a bank, to better manage its credit risk. A way of transferring credit risk to another party.

The defination and meaning of Credit enhancement is A technique to lower the interest payments on a bond by raising the issue?s credit rating, often through insurance in the form of a financial guarantee or with standby letters of credit issued by a bank.

The defination and meaning of Credit insurance is Commercial coverage against losses resulting from the failure of business debtors to pay their obligation to the insured, usually due to insolvency. The coverage is geared to manufacturers, wholesalers, and service providers who may be dependent on a few accounts and therefore could lose significant income in the event of an insolvency. Sometimes called bad-debt insurance.

The defination and meaning of Credit life insurance is Life insurance coverage on a borrower designed to repay the balance of a loan in the event the borrower dies before the loan is repaid. It may also include disablement and can be offered as an option in connection with credit cards and auto loans.

The defination and meaning of Credit Limit is The maximum amount that a card holder can spend on the card. The maximum spending limit is determined by the kind of card you own. Check with your bank on what your credit limit is.

The defination and meaning of Credit Quality is Average credit quality gives a snapshot of the portfolio's overall credit quality. It is an average of each bond's credit rating, weighted by the relative size in the portfolio.

The defination and meaning of Credit risk is The risk associated with an investment where the borrower is not able to repay the amount to the lender. This can occur on account of poor financial condition of the borrower, and it represents a risk for the lender.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Credit Risk is The risk that a party to a contractual agreement or transaction will be unable to meet its obligations or will default on commitments. Credit risk can be associated with almost any financial transaction. BASEL-II provides two options for measurement of capital charge for credit risk
1.standardised approach (SA) - Under the SA, the banks use a risk-weighting schedule for measuring the credit risk of its assets by assigning risk weights based on the rating assigned by the external credit rating agencies.
2. Internal rating based approach (IRB) - The IRB approach, on the other hand, allows banks to use their own internal ratings of counterparties and exposures, which permit a finer differentiation of risk for various exposures and hence delivers capital requirements that are better aligned to the degree of risks. The IRB approaches are of two types:
a) Foundation IRB (FIRB): The bank estimates the Probability of Default (PD) associated with each borrower, and the supervisor supplies other inputs such as Loss Given Default (LGD) and Exposure At Default (EAD).
b) Advanced IRB (AIRB): In addition to Probability of Default (PD), the bank estimates other inputs such as EAD and LGD. The requirements for this approach are more exacting. The adoption of advanced approaches would require the banks to meet minimum requirements relating to internal ratings at the outset and on an ongoing basis such as those relating to the design of the rating system, operations, controls, corporate governance, and estimation and validation of credit risk components, viz., PD for both FIRB and AIRB and LGD and EAD for AIRB. The banks should have, at the minimum, PD data for five years and LGD and EAD data for seven years. In India, banks have been advised to compute capital requirements for credit risk adopting the SA.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Credit risk insurance is An exporter’s insurance against non-payment by the importer

The defination and meaning of Credit Shield is Credit Shield is a waiver of outstanding payments on a card up to a stipulated limit, in the event of accidental death of the card holder.

The defination and meaning of Credit Spread is The difference in value of two options, where the value of the one sold exceeds the value of the one purchased.

The defination and meaning of Credit Spread is A spread in prices or interest rates resulting from credit risk.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Credit, foreign tax is A method of relieving international double taxation. If income received from abroad is subject to tax in the recipient's country, any foreign tax on that income may be credited against the domestic tax on that income.  The theory is that this means foreign and domestic earnings of an entity will as far as possible be similarly taxed, although usually the credit allowed is limited to the amount of domestic tax, with no carry over if tax is higher abroad.

The defination and meaning of Credit, tax is Allowance of deduction from or a direct offset against the amount of tax due as opposed to an offset against income.

The defination and meaning of Credit, underlying (indirect) tax is In relation to a dividend, credit for underlying tax is credit for the tax levied on the profits of the company out of which the dividends have been paid. Such relief may be given either under a tax treaty or in accordance with unilateral provisions.

The defination and meaning of Credit, withholding tax is Various kinds of income (such as dividends, interest, royalties) are taxed at source by requiring the payer to deduct tax and account for it to the tax authorities (abroad). The taxpayer recipient is entitled to credit the tax withheld at source against his final tax liabilities determined by (domestic) tax law of the country in which he is resident.

The defination and meaning of Criminal law is Legal proceedings directed towards wrongs against society, such as rape, murder, and rob-bery. Charges are made by a government body, and the guilty party is subject to fine and/or imprisonment.

The defination and meaning of Critical Illness Rider is A rider added to a life insurance policy to protect the insured against financial loss in the event of a terminal illness. A critical illness rider makes living benefits payable to the insured for medical expenses prior to death.Generally, the extra cover is equal to the sum assured on the base policy and is paid upon diagnosis of the illness.While the illnesses covered and the premiums vary among insurers, most insurers cover cancer, coronary artery bypass, heart attack, kidney/renal failure, major organ transplant and paralytic stroke.

The defination and meaning of Crop (Marketing) Year is The time span from harvest to harvest for agricultural commodities. The crop marketing year varies slightly with each ag commodity, but it tends to begin at harvest and end before the next year's harvest; e.g., the marketing year for soybeans begins September 1 and ends August 31. The futures contract month of November represents the first major new-crop marketing month, and the contract month of July represents the last major old-crop marketing month for soybeans.

The defination and meaning of Crop Reports is Reports compiled by the U.S. Department of Agriculture on various agricultural commodities that are released throughout the year. Information in the reports includes estimates on planted acreage, yield, and expected production, as well as comparison of production from previous years.

The defination and meaning of Cross is A trade that occurs when two accounts within the same Participating Organization/Member wish to buy and sell the same security at an agreed price and volume. With some approved exceptions, crosses can only occur within the current bid and ask for the stock.

The defination and meaning of Cross Correlations is The extent to which the revenue streams of individual traders within a single enterprise tend to exhibit similar patterns over time.

The defination and meaning of Cross rate is In calculating a spot or future price between two currencies, reference to their respective quotations in a third currency determines the cross rate.

The defination and meaning of Cross-Hedging is Hedging a cash commodity using a different but related futures contract when there is no futures contract for the cash commodity being hedged and the cash and futures markets follow similar price trends (e.g., using soybean meal futures to hedge fish meal).

The defination and meaning of Cross-rate is The exchange rate between 2 currencies where neither of the currencies are USD.

The defination and meaning of CRR  is Cash reserve ratio is the cash parked by the banks in their specified current account maintained with RBI.
CRR, Cash Reserve Ratio

The defination and meaning of Crush Spread is The purchase of soybean futures and the simultaneous sale of soybean oil and meal futures. See Reverse Crush.

The defination and meaning of CSC is Container service charge.

The defination and meaning of CTI2 is Market Profile terminology for commercial clearing members, as opposed to CTI1, local floor traders.

The defination and meaning of Cum Dividend is With dividend. The owner of shares purchased cum dividend is entitled to an upcoming already-declared dividend. The opposite of this is ex dividend.

The defination and meaning of Cum Rights is With rights. The owner of shares purchased cum rights is entitled to forthcoming, already-declared rights. The opposite of this is ex rights.

The defination and meaning of Cum-Dividend/Distribution Date is The trading day before the ex-dividend/distribution (ex-d) date. It is the last day on which the securities can be traded and on which the buyer is entitled to the dividend/distribution.

The defination and meaning of Cup and Handle is An accumulation pattern observed on bar charts. The pattern lasts from seven to 65 weeks; the cup is in the shape of a "U" and the handle is usually more than one or two weeks in duration. The handle is a slight downward drift with low trading volume from the right-hand side of the formation.

The defination and meaning of Currency is Money issued by a government. Coins and paper money. It is a form of money used as a unit of exchange within a country.

The defination and meaning of Currency basket is A selection of foreign currencies, which is used as a guiding line by regulative institutions when shaping a national currency rate against other currencies.

The defination and meaning of Currency future is A contract for the future delivery of a commodity, currency or security on a specific date. In contrast to forward contracts, futures contracts are for
standard quantities and for standard periods of time and are primarily traded on an Exchange. Forward transactions enable importers and exporters who will have to make, or will receive, payment in a foreign currency at a future time, to protect themselves against the risk of fluctuations in the spot rate.

The defination and meaning of Currency Intervention is Central bank intervention in the operations on the currency market in order to raise or lower the rate of the national currency by selling/buying foreign currency. A reduced rate of the national currency can be achieved through the purchase of foreign currency; increased rate is achieved through foreign currency sales.

The defination and meaning of Currency option is The contractually-agreed right to buy (call option) or to sell (put option) a specific amount of a foreign currency at a predetermined price on a specific date (European option) or up to a future date (American option).

The defination and meaning of Currency pair is A conversion operation object based on the change of one currency rate against another. The example of the currency pair is USD/JPY.

The defination and meaning of Currency risk is The risk that shifts in foreign exchange rates may undermine the dollar or any other foreign currency value of overseas investments.

The defination and meaning of Current assets is The cash, accounts receivable, inventory, and other assets that are likely to be converted into cash, sold, exchanged, or expensed in the normal course of business, usually within a year.

The defination and meaning of Current Ratio is The current assets of a company divided by its current liabilities. Balance-sheet strength indication.

The defination and meaning of Current yield is The remunerative rate of interest which is, or would be, a appropriate at the date of valuation, assuming the property to be let at its full rental value. It will be the same as the reversion yield where the reversion is to full rental value, and the same as the term yield where the rent receivable under the lease is full rental value.

The defination and meaning of Curve is The continuous image of the unit interval.

The defination and meaning of Curve fitting is This is adding complexity to a system in order to produce better and better historical results. For example, A simple system that is profitable but only 60% of its trades are winners. You notice that many of the “bad” signals occur near the beginning of the month so you filter those out by adding complexity that brings your accuracy to 70%. As you add complexity you can continue to improve your historical record to 90% accurate. However, the complicated system is much less likely to reproduce the 90% accuracy than the simple system was to reproduce the 60% accuracy.

The defination and meaning of Curve-Fitting is Developing complicated rules that map known conditions.

The defination and meaning of CUSIP is The number assigned by the Committee of Uniform Security Identification Procedure that appears on all securities documents. Each security is given a number so that it is easily identifiable.

The defination and meaning of Custodian is The bank or trust company that maintains a mutual fund's assets, including its portfolio of securities or some record of them. The custodian provides safekeeping of securities but has no role in portfolio management.

The defination and meaning of Customer Foreign Currency Account (CFCA) is These accounts record overseas currency funds held by the Bank on behalf of a customer.

The defination and meaning of Customer Margin is Within the futures industry, financial guarantees required of both buyers and sellers of futures contracts and sellers of option contracts to ensure fulfilling of contract obligations. FCMs are responsible for overseeing customer margin accounts. Margins are determined on the basis of market risk and contract value. Also referred to as performance-bond margin. See Clearing Margin.

The defination and meaning of Customs broker is Licensed agent or broker whose function is to handle the process of clearing goods through customs for importers.

The defination and meaning of Customs duties is Taxes on goods imported into a country

The defination and meaning of Customs duty is Tax levied by the government on goods crossing the customs border, usually a tax imposed on imports. Duties, or tariffs, are either based on the value of the goods (ad valorem duties), some other factors such as weight or quantity (specific duties), or a combination of value and other factors (compound duties).

The defination and meaning of Customs duty is It is a levy imposed on imports into, and exports out of a country, and are paid by the importer and exporter, respectively.

The defination and meaning of Cut off Price is In Book building issue, the issuer is required to indicate either the price band or a floor price in the red herring prospectus. The actual discovered issue price can be any price in the price band   

or any price above the floor price. This issue price is called “Cut off price”. This is decided by the issuer and LM after considering the book and investors’ appetite for the stock. SEBI (DIP) guidelines permit only retail individual investors to have an option of applying at cut off price.

The defination and meaning of Cutoff Frequency is A point where higher frequency cycles will not pass through a filter (e.g., a 10-day SMA will eliminate cycles of 20 days or less).

The defination and meaning of CWO is Cash with order.

The defination and meaning of Cwt is Hundredweight; unit of measurement.

The defination and meaning of Cycle is A variation where a point of observation returns to its origin.

The defination and meaning of Cyclic analysis is analysis that uses various seasonal factors as a basis to determine trends and prices.

The defination and meaning of Cyclical Stock is A stock of a company in an industry sector that is particularly sensitive to swings in economic conditions.

The defination and meaning of D/D is Delivered.

The defination and meaning of D/S is Days after sight (payment term often used in conjunction with bank drafts and documentary credits).

The defination and meaning of DAF is Delivered at Frontier.

The defination and meaning of Daily Price Limit is The maximum price advance or decline permitted for a futures contract in one trading session compared to the previous day's settlement price.

The defination and meaning of Daily Range is The difference between the high and low price during one trading day.

The defination and meaning of Daily Trading Limit is The maximum price range allowed for a contract during a trading session, set by the exchange, and based on the difference from the previous day’s close.

The defination and meaning of Data Preprocessing is Altering data to some extent to be more accurately analyzed; smoothing, reducing unwanted data, removing trend. Processing data is mathematically transforming the data from one form into another with the goal of amplifying pertinent information for traders.

The defination and meaning of Date draft is A draft which matures a specified number of days after issue.

The defination and meaning of Date of commencement is The date on which cover begins, following acceptance of the risk by the insurer.

The defination and meaning of Day High is The highest price that a security has traded at during the day.

The defination and meaning of Day Low is The lowest price that a security has traded at during the day.

The defination and meaning of Day Order is An order that is valid only for the day it is entered. If the order is still outstanding when the market closes, it will be purged overnight.

The defination and meaning of Day trade is A trade opened and closed on the same trading day.

The defination and meaning of Day trader is A trader who buys and sells on the basis of small short-term price movements.

The defination and meaning of Day trading is Refers to a style or type of trading where trade positions are opened and closed during the same day.

The defination and meaning of Days Sales Outstanding is A measure of accounts receivables compared to sales. Higher DSOs means a company’s receivables as a percentage of sales have increased, not a good sign.

The defination and meaning of ddc (or DDC) is Sometimes said to be ‘delivered destination charges’. Referring to various miscellaneous charges in the port of destination; alternatively said to refer to dispatch money at discharge.

The defination and meaning of DDP is Delivered Duty Paid.

The defination and meaning of DDU is Delivered Duty Unpaid.

The defination and meaning of De minimis is Phrase used in connection with circumstances in which the full rigour of the tax law is not enforced because, in particular, of the small amount or minor breach which may be involved, particularly in the context of under-assessed or underpaid tax which are not pursued on "de minimis" grounds.

The defination and meaning of Dead Cat Bounce is A rebound in a market that sees prices recover and come back up somewhat.

The defination and meaning of Dealer is A company or individual, playing in the market at their own expense and on their behalf, that is, investing their own money, selling/buying a currency or other assets on their own.

The defination and meaning of Dealing is The buying and selling of foreign currencies in the foreign exchange markets of the world.

The defination and meaning of Death Benefit is The amount payable, as stated in a life insurance policy, to the designated beneficiary(ies) upon the death of the insured.

The defination and meaning of Death Distribution is The payment of IRA funds to a beneficiary upon the death of an IRA owner.

The defination and meaning of Death duties is Taxes imposed on the transfer of property on account of a person's death.

The defination and meaning of Debenture is A long-term debt instrument issued by corporations or governments that is backed only by the integrity of the borrower, not by collateral. A debenture is unsecured and subordinate to secured debt. A debenture is unsecured in that there are no liens or pledges on specific assets.

The defination and meaning of Debit Card is A Debit card is basically ATM card on the move. It enables you to access your bank deposits for payment. When you make any purchases using a debit card, then your bank account is automatically and instantaneously debited to the extent of the purchase amount. Unlike credit cards the limit for this card ends at the minimum account balance in your bank account.

The defination and meaning of Debit Spread is The difference in value of two options, where the value of the long position exceeds the value of the short position.

The defination and meaning of Debt dumping is Transferring a bad debt to a group company located in a higher-tax rate country in order to write off the debt in that country.

The defination and meaning of Debt Fund is This fund invests in fixed income instruments such as debentures (bonds), Treasury Bills etc. Preferred by investors who want steady income and not willing to take much of risk.

The defination and meaning of Debt Price is The price paid per $100 of a debt instrument's face value traded. A debt instrument trading at par would have a price of $100. A price below face value (for example, $99.1) indicates that the debt instrument has traded at a discount. A price above face value (for example, $101.1) indicates that the debt instrument has traded at a premium.

The defination and meaning of Debt to Equity (Long Term) is Total long term debt divided by total shareholder equity.

The defination and meaning of Debt to Equity (Total) is Total (short and long term) debt divided by total shareholder equity.

The defination and meaning of Debt Value is The total dollar value of volume traded on one side of the transaction for a specified period. It equals price multiplied by volume divided by 100.

The defination and meaning of Debt Volume is The number of debt instruments traded on one side of the transaction for a specified period multiplied by the face value of the debt instrument.

The defination and meaning of Debt/equity ratio is Relationship of total debt of a company to its ordinary share capital. If a corporate debt is disproportionately high in comparison with its equity, the debt may be recharacterised as equity, resulting in a disallowance of the interest deduction and taxation of the funds as dividends.

The defination and meaning of Debtor is A person who owes money; a borrower

The defination and meaning of Declaration is Part of a property or liability insurance policy that states the name and address of policy-holder, property insured, its location and description, the policy period, premiums, and supplemental information.

The defination and meaning of Decreasing term is Term life insurance in which the amount of coverage declines during the period for which it is issued.

The defination and meaning of Deductible is The amount of loss borne or paid by the policyholder. Either a specified rupee amount, a percentage of the claim amount, or a specified amount of time that must elapse before benefits are paid. The bigger the deductible, the lower the premium charged for the same coverage.

The defination and meaning of Deduction is A situation where a specified amount is reduced from the taxable income of the individual. A deduction leads to a tax saving for the individual investor.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Deduction is Expense allowed by the Internal Revenue Service to be subtracted from an individual's gross income before figuring a person's taxable income. Certain Traditional IRA contributions are classified as a tax deduction.

The defination and meaning of Deduction at source is See: Withholding tax

The defination and meaning of Deductions is Deduction denotes, in an income tax context, an item which is subtracted (deducted) in arriving at, and which therefore reduces, taxable income.

The defination and meaning of Deductive Logic is Logic traditionally used in expert systems, which defines a method for reasoning from the general to the specific.

The defination and meaning of Deep-in-the-Money is A deep-in-the-money call option has the strike price of the option well below the current price of the underlying instrument. A deep-in-the-money put option has the strike price of the option well above the current price of the underlying instrument.

The defination and meaning of Default is When payments are not made in time and according to the agreement signed by the card holder, the account is said to be in default. If you are in default, the bank that has issued you your card is entitled to charge you a higher interest rate for that particular billing period as a penalty.

The defination and meaning of Default Risk Premium (DRP) is The additional return lenders require to compensate them for default risk.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Defensive medicine is The practice of performing extra procedures and tests in addition to those that are probably necessary for a given patient in an attempt to avoid malpractice litigation.

The defination and meaning of Defensive Stock is A stock purchased from a company that has maintained a record of stable earnings and continuous dividend payments through periods of economic downturn.

The defination and meaning of Deferment date is It is the date on which the deferment period ends.

The defination and meaning of Deferment of tax is The postponement of tax payments from the current year to a later year. A number of countries have introduced legislation to counter the kind of tax avoidance whereby a taxpayer obtains a deferment of tax which is not intended by law. Ex) CFC legislation

The defination and meaning of Deferment period is The period from the date of commencement of the policy to the vesting date.

The defination and meaning of Deferred is Another term for "back months." Delivery The tender and receipt of an actual commodity or financial instrument, or cash in settlement of a futures contract.

The defination and meaning of Deferred (Delivery) Month is The more distant month(s) in which futures trading is taking place, as distinguished from the nearby (delivery) month.

The defination and meaning of Deferred annuity is Benefits that begin at some specified time after the annuity is purchased.

The defination and meaning of Deferred anything is Balance sheet liability reflecting expenses shown on the income statement that haven't actually been paid.

The defination and meaning of Deferred income is Term used to describe income which will be realized at a future date, thus delaying any tax liability.

The defination and meaning of Deferred Income Tax is Balance sheet liability reflecting taxes due, but not yet paid.

The defination and meaning of Deferred Load is Sales charge paid when selling a mutual fund (a.k.a. back-end load).

The defination and meaning of Deferred Revenue is A balance sheet liability reflecting payments received for work not yet performed.

The defination and meaning of Deferred Sales Charge Schedule of Decline is The actual percent charged, or amount you will pay during the corresponding time periods. This amount or percentage that your pay goes down as time goes on. (the longer you hold the fund the lower the sales charge).

The defination and meaning of Deficiency is The excess of a taxpayer's correct tax liability for the taxable year over the amount of taxes previously paid for that year.

The defination and meaning of Defined Benefit Plan is A qualified plan designed to pay a benefit, typically based on a percentage of salary, at retirement. The employer, not the employee, funds the plan.

The defination and meaning of Defined Benefit Plan Definition is Defined benefit plans are more commonly known as traditional pension plans. In a defined benefit plan, an employer typically guarantees a worker a specific lifetime annual retirement income, based on years of service, final rate of pay, age and other factors. The risks of paying for the plan rest entirely with the employer.

Many defined benefit plans permit employees to convert their future income into a lump-sum payment at retirement. Federal pension insurance generally protects retirees who opt for annual income, but workers who opt for lump-sum payoffs are on their own to invest their sums wisely.

The defination and meaning of Defined Contribution Plan is A qualified retirement plan, such as a 401(k) plan, whose benefits depend on the amount contributed by the employee/employer and the earnings of those contributions.

The defination and meaning of Defined Contribution Plan Definition is A defined contribution plan is a retirement option that lets an employee -- and sometimes his or her employer -- contribute to their own tax-advantaged account. In most plans, including 401(k), SEP, SIMPLE and traditional individual retirement accounts, contributions and growth in the account are tax-free until the money is withdrawn. In Roth IRAs and Roth 401(k)s, contributions are taxed, but all growth and withdrawals are tax-free.
In all defined contribution plans, investment risks and the potential for gain are concentrated in the worker, not in the employer. Though some employers offer matching contributions to encourage workers to put their money in, the ultimate decision to invest rests with the employee.

The defination and meaning of Deflation is Decreasing prices over time. The deflation rate is usually measured per year. In the United States, deflation is historically rare. The government does what it can to ensure widespread deflation does not occur as it would potentially lead to spending decreases since people would wait for things to become less expensive.

The defination and meaning of Degree of risk is Relative variation of actual from expected losses.

The defination and meaning of Degrees of Freedom is The number of independent observations; the number of observations minus the number of parameters to be estimated.

The defination and meaning of Delay is The amount of time that elapses between a change in an input event and the resultant change in a related output event or time series.

The defination and meaning of Delayed Delivery Order is A special term order in which there is a clear understanding between the buying and selling parties that the delivery of the securities will be delayed beyond the usual three-day settlement period to the date specified in the order.

The defination and meaning of Delist is The removal of a security's listing on a stock exchange. This is done when the security no longer exists, the company is bankrupt, the public distribution of the security has dropped to an unacceptably low level, or the company has failed to comply with the terms of its listing agreement.

The defination and meaning of Delisted Issue is The status of a security that is no longer listed on the Exchange. The security could trade on another market.

The defination and meaning of Delisted Issuer is A listed issuer is delisted when the last listed security of the issuer is delisted.

The defination and meaning of Deliverable Grades is The standard grades of commodities or instruments listed in the rules of the exchanges that must be met when delivering cash commodities against futures contracts. Grades are often accompanied by a schedule of discounts and premiums allowable for delivery of commodities of lesser or greater quality than the standard called for by the exchange. Also referred to as contract grades.

The defination and meaning of Delivery is The tender and receipt of the underlying commodity or the payment or receipt of cash in the settlement of an open futures contract.

The defination and meaning of Delivery date is The day in the month that commodities on a futures contract have to be delivered.

The defination and meaning of Delivery Day is The third day in the delivery process at the Chicago Board of Trade, when the buyer's clearing firm presents the delivery notice with a certified check for the amount due at the office of the seller's clearing firm.

The defination and meaning of Delivery Month is A specific month in which delivery may take place under the terms of a futures contract. Also referred to as contract month.

The defination and meaning of Delivery notice is A notice of a clearing member's intention to deliver a stated quantity of a commodity in settlement of a short futures position.

The defination and meaning of Delivery Points is The locations and facilities designated by a futures exchange where stocks of a commodity may be delivered in fulfillment of a futures contract, under procedures established by the exchange.

The defination and meaning of Delta is A measure of how much an option premium changes, given a unit change in the underlying futures price. Delta often is interpreted as the probability that the option will be in-the-money by expiration.

The defination and meaning of Demand is The combined desire, ability and willingness on the part of consumers to buy goods or services. Demand is determined by income and by price, which are, in part, determined by supply.

The defination and meaning of Demand deposits is The sum of money that is given to a bank but can be withdrawn as per the requirement of the depositor. Amounts that are lying in the savings and current accounts are known as demand deposits because they can be used at any point of time.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Demand draft is A bill of exchange payable at sight or on demand.

The defination and meaning of Demand guarantee is A guarantee usually issued by a bank, under which the beneficiary is only required to make a demand in order to receive payment. In contrast to the conditional or suretyship guarantee - which require the beneficiary to provide proof of the principal’s default, a demand guarantee only requires that the beneficiary make a simple demand, and therefore this latter type of guarantee is relatively risky in terms of exposure to an unjustified demand on the part of the beneficiary.

The defination and meaning of Demand Index is An index that shows the buying and selling power of markets and stocks from mathematical calculations of volume and price ratios.

The defination and meaning of Demand, Law of is The relationship between product demand and price.

The defination and meaning of Dependence is A relationship between two different experimental results in which the first result does not directly influence the chances of the second result occurring, but instead, the two results are indirectly related because they are subject to influences from a common outside factor.

The defination and meaning of Dependent life is Group term life insurance covering an employee?s dependent.

The defination and meaning of Dependent personal services is The OECD model tax treaty provides rules for the treatment of salaries, wages and other similar remuneration (i.e. employment income) under the heading "dependent personal services". As a general rule, with some exceptions, the right to tax income from dependent personal services is allocated to the country where the employment activities are exercised.

The defination and meaning of Depletion is Deductible expense which reflects the decrease of a natural resource due to extraction of the resource.

The defination and meaning of Deposit insurance is The sum of money that is given to a bank but can be withdrawn as per the requirement of the depositor. Amounts that are lying in the savings and current accounts are known as demand deposits because they can be used at any point of time.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Deposit time slabs is The period for which a term deposit can be made with a bank. There are various time periods for which this is possible like 14-29 days, 181-364 days, 3-5 years and so on. The depositor has to select one of these for the purpose of their deposit.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Depositor is A person who is making a deposit with the bank is known as a depositor. The depositor is the lender of the money which will be returned to him/her at the end of the deposit period.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Deposits is It is a sum of money lodged in a bank for the purpose of earning interest. A deposit is repayable according to terms of acceptance
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Depreciation is A fall in the value of a currency due to market forces.

The defination and meaning of DEQ is Delivered Ex Quay.

The defination and meaning of Derivative Security is A financial security whose value is determined in part from the value and characteristics of another security. The other security is referred to as the underlying security.

The defination and meaning of Derivatives is Options and other instrument whose value depends on an underlying security. For instance, the value of a call option on Cisco Systems (derivative) fluctuates with the price of Cisco System’s stock.

The defination and meaning of Descending Triangle is The converse or opposite of an Ascending Triangle. A continuation pattern with bearish implications. Volume is normally higher at the lows and decreases as the upper, downsloping trendline is approached. A break below the lower horizontal line of the pattern, on increased volume, completes the pattern and reaffirms the downtrend in progress.

The defination and meaning of Destination principle is Principle under a VAT regime which mandates that VAT on goods be paid in the country where the purchaser is resident (i.e. the country of consumption) at the rate that would have applied had the goods been purchased from a domestic supplier.

The defination and meaning of Destuffing is Unloading goods from a container.

The defination and meaning of Deterministic is The fundamental continuous effect of an exogenous variable such as money supply that can be deter mined to be explanatory.

The defination and meaning of Deterministic models is Liability-matching models that assume that the liability payments and the asset cash flows are known with certainty. Related: Compare stochastic models

The defination and meaning of Deterministic System is A system in which the outcome is determined by an equation; a system in which cause and effect is easily determined.

The defination and meaning of Detrend is To remove the general drift, tendency, or bent of a set of statistical data as related to time.

The defination and meaning of Deutsche Akzien Index(DAX 100) is Major German stock index. It is calculated as the average of 100 top German companies.

The defination and meaning of Devaluation is The depreciation of the national currency, or in other words, the rate decline in relation to foreign currencies and gold. For example, in Britain in September 1992 raising interest rates in the situation of stagnation in the economy were the reason for the devaluation of the pound. On September 16 the pound lost 2.7% against the Mark and by the evening was traded in New York at 2.703.

The defination and meaning of Devanning is Unloading goods from a container.

The defination and meaning of Developer is An entrepreneur who has an interest in a property, initiates its development and ensures, that this is carried out ( for occupation, investment or dealing) and from the outset accepts the responsibility for providing or procures the requisite funds needed to finance the whole project.

The defination and meaning of Development control is The powers of a local planning authority to control the development and use of land, which includes inter alia:-

The defination and meaning of Development yield is In a valuation to ascertain a ground rent, the rate at which costs are decapitalised to find the annual deduction from the occupation rents. It comprises:

The defination and meaning of Difference-in-Means Test is A statistical test that indicates the likelihood of observing the difference if the true differ ence were zero. A large value of this statistic leads to nonacceptance of the null hypothesis that the true difference is zero.

The defination and meaning of Differential pricing is Pricing of an issue where one category is offered shares at a price different from the other category is called differential pricing. In DIP Guidelines differential pricing is allowed only if the securities to applicants in the firm allotment category is at a price higher than the price at which the net offer to the public is made . The net offer to the public means the offer made to the Indian public and does not include firm allotments or reservations or promoters’ contributions.

The defination and meaning of Differentials is Price differences between classes, grades, and delivery locations of various stocks of the same commodity.

The defination and meaning of Diffusion Equation is A partial differential equation, used in solving a random walk problem.

The defination and meaning of Diluted Earnings (a.k.a. fully diluted earnings) is Total of after tax (bottom line) earnings divided by number of common shares including unexercised stock options, and unconverted preferred stock and convertible bonds. Undiluted earnings would be after tax earnings divided by issued stock only, not considering outstanding options, etc.

The defination and meaning of Diminution of value is The idea that a vehicle (or any other asset) loses value after it has been damaged in an accident and repaired.

The defination and meaning of Direct charge method a is Method of charging directly for specific intra-group services on a clearly identified basis.

The defination and meaning of Direct loss is A loss that stems directly from an unbroken chain of events leading from an insured peril to the loss.

The defination and meaning of Direct premiums is Property/casualty premiums col-lected by the insurer from policyholders, before rein-surance premiums are deducted. Insurers share some direct premiums and the risk involved with their rein-surers.

The defination and meaning of Direct Public Offerings is Offering of securities to the public directly by an issuer without the assistance of any Investment Banking firm.

The defination and meaning of Direct quotation is Quoting in fixed units of foreign currency against variable amounts of the domestic currency.

The defination and meaning of Direct response is A system to distribute insurance to customers through direct mail, telephone, television, or other methods without the use of intermediaries.

The defination and meaning of Direct Rollover is The movement of funds from a qualified retirement plan into an IRA without the account owner taking receipt of the funds.

The defination and meaning of Direct sales/ direct response is Method of selling insurance directly to the insured through an insurance company?s own employees, through the mail, or via the Internet. This is in lieu of using captive or exclusive agents.

The defination and meaning of Direct Stock Purchase Plan (DSP) is A plan implemented by a corporation allowing purchase of shares, or fractions of shares, directly from the company, usually on a regular basis.

The defination and meaning of Direct tax is Direct taxes are taxes imposed on income, capital gains and net worth. Gift tax, death duties and property tax are also considered direct taxes.

The defination and meaning of Direct tax is Direct tax is levied on individuals and corporations for incomes generated by them. For example, income tax, corporate tax.

The defination and meaning of Direct writers is Insurance companies that sell directly to the public using exclusive agents or their own employees, through the mail, or via Internet. Large insurers, whether predominately direct writers or agency companies, are increasingly using many different channels to sell insurance. In reinsurance, denotes reinsurers that deal directly with the insurance companies they reinsure without using a broker.

The defination and meaning of Directors and officers liability insurance (D&O) is Covers directors and officers of a company for negligent acts or omissions, and for misleading statements that result in suits against the company, often by shareholders.

The defination and meaning of Disability income insurance is Health insurance that provides periodic payments if the insured becomes disabled as a result of illness or accident.

The defination and meaning of Disability loss is The inability of a person to work because of an illness or injury.

The defination and meaning of Disappearing deductible is A deductible used in property insurance in which the size of the deductible decreases as the size of the loss increases. At a given level of loss, the deductible completely disappears.

The defination and meaning of Discount is The difference between a bond's face value and its current market price.

The defination and meaning of Discount Bond is A bond that sells at value below par value.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Discount Broker is A stockbroker charging lower commissions than full-service brokers. Discount brokers do not give investment advice.

The defination and meaning of Discount interest rate is Discount refers to the amount of interest for the period of finance deducted from the face value of a bill of exchange or promissory note. A discount rate is the discount expressed as a rate per cent per annum related to the face value of the bill of exchange or promissory note.

The defination and meaning of Discount Method is A method of paying interest by issuing a security at less than par and repaying par value at maturity. The difference between the higher par value and the lower purchase price is the interest.

The defination and meaning of Discount Rate is The interest rate charged on loans by the Federal Reserve Bank.

The defination and meaning of Discounted cash flow analysis is Techniques used in investment and development appraisal whereby future inflows and outflows of cash associated with a particular project are expressed in present-day terms by discounting. The most widely used forms of DCF are the internal rates of return (IRR) and net present value (NPV). The techniques may be used for such purposes as the valuation of land and investment, the ranking of projects or their components.

The defination and meaning of Discrepancy is Documentary credit context: a discrepancy arises when documents presented under a documentary credit do not conform to the terms of the credit; generally, an error, contradiction or omission related to the documents constitutes the discrepancy. The bank refuses to pay against the documents unless the applicant (buyer) agrees to amend the credit or otherwise waive objections to payment under the credit.

The defination and meaning of Discretionary account is An account in which the customer permits a trading institution to act on the customer's behalf in buying and selling currency pairs. The institution has discretion as to the choice of currency pairs, prices, and timing-subject to any limitations specified in the agreement.

The defination and meaning of Disinvestment is The sale of government's shares in public sector undertaking is called disinvestment.

The defination and meaning of Distribution is The process by which demand is more than compensated for by expanding supply. Over a period of time, increasing supply has a negative effect on the price of a stock. Stocks under distribution are often signaled by broadening, rounding, or double or triple tops.

The defination and meaning of Distributor is An individual or a corporation serving as principal underwriter of a mutual fund's shares, buying shares directly from the fund, and reselling them to other investors.

The defination and meaning of Divergence is An action by one indicator moving, not in conjunction or agreement with another indicator, but rather counter to or short of it. Such nonconfirmations often signal reversals.

The defination and meaning of Diversifiable Risk is The components of an asset's risk that can be eliminated when the asset is combined in a well-diversified portfolio.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Diversification is Strategy for reducing the risk of investing in a single industry/market sector or a small number of companies, by spreading the risk over several industries/market sectors or a larger number of companies.

The defination and meaning of Dividend is The portion of the issuer's equity paid directly to shareholders. It is generally paid on common or preferred shares. The issuer or its representative provides the amount, frequency (monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, or annually), payable date, and record date. The exchange that the issue is listed on sets the ex-dividend/distribution (ex-d) date for entitlement. An issuer is under no legal obligation to pay either preferred or common dividends.

The defination and meaning of Dividend Plan is In a dividend plan the fund pays dividend from time to time as and when the dividend is declared.

The defination and meaning of Dividend Reinvestment Plan is A program offered by a publicly held company in which dividends are used to buy more shares of the company.

The defination and meaning of Dividend Stripping is When an investor invests with the idea of exiting from the fund immediately after the dividend is paid.

The defination and meaning of Dividend Yield is Total of 12-month's dividends paid (historical or forecast) divided by the latest share price.

The defination and meaning of Dividend/Distribution Payable Date is The date set by the issuer on which the dividend/distribution will be paid.

The defination and meaning of Dividend/Distribution Record Date is The date on which a security holder must be registered as a holder of an issue to receive the dividend/distribution.

The defination and meaning of Dividends is Cash or stock paid to shareholders, usually on a quarterly schedule.

The defination and meaning of DMA is Day Moving Average. As in 200 DMA.

The defination and meaning of Dock receipt is A document certifying receipt of goods by the international carrier at the port of departure.

The defination and meaning of Document of title is An instrument which enables the holder to deal with the property described in it as if they were the owner, e.g. bill of lading.

The defination and meaning of Documentation is The papers to be signed in connection with the loan at the housing finance company, i.e., the loan papers, is called documentation.

The defination and meaning of Documents against acceptance (D/A) is The documents transferring title to goods are delivered to the buyer (drawee) only upon the buyer’s acceptance of the attached draft guaranteeing payment at a later date.

The defination and meaning of Documents against Payment (D/P) is In the case of a sight draft, the documents transferring title to goods are released to the buyer/importer only against cash payment.

The defination and meaning of Dollar is The national currency in a number of countries: the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand etc. = 100 cents. The name originated from the word "Thaler" which was the name for a black metal coin in Europe.

The defination and meaning of Dollar Cost Averaging is Investing a fixed amount of dollars in a specific security at regular set intervals over a period of time. Dollar cost averaging results in a lower average cost per share, compared with purchasing a constant number of shares at set intervals. The investor buys more shares when the price is low and buys fewer shares when the price is high.

The defination and meaning of Dollar Cost Averaging* is A method of accumulating assets by investing a fixed amount of dollars in securities at set intervals, regardless of stock market movements.

The defination and meaning of Double Bottom is A reversal type chart pattern distinguished by two successive declines, both terminating at approximately the same level. When completed, accomplished by a rise on volume above the high between the two lows, the pattern often resembles the letter W.

The defination and meaning of Double Bottom/ Double Top is These are reversal patterns. It is a decline or advance twice to the same level (plus or minus 3%). It indicates support or resistance at that level. These are signature patterns that are playable with little or no confirmation.

The defination and meaning of Double Cover is An additional sum that is equal to the sum assured that is payable when the claim is raised.

The defination and meaning of Double Indemnity is Payment of twice the basic benefit in the event of loss resulting from specified causes or under specified circumstances.

The defination and meaning of Double taxation treaty is See: Tax treaty

The defination and meaning of Double taxation, domestic and international is Domestic double taxation arises when comparable taxes are imposed within a federal state by sovereign tax jurisdictions of equal rank. International double taxation arises when comparable taxes are imposed in two or more states on the same taxpayer in respect of the same taxable income or capital, e.g. where income is taxable in the source country and in the country of residence of the recipient of such income.

The defination and meaning of Double taxation, economic and juridical is Double taxation is juridical when the same person is taxed twice on the same income by more than one state. Double taxation is economic if more than one person is taxed on the same item.

The defination and meaning of Double Top is A reversal type chart pattern--the obverse of the Double Bottom--which resembles the letter M.

The defination and meaning of Double-Smoothed is A price series that has been smoothed by a mathematical technique such as a moving average. This first series of smoothed price data is then smoothed a second time.

The defination and meaning of Dow Jones Averages (DJA) is The average indicator of transportation, utilities and industrial companies’ shares. It was created by Charles Dow, the founder of the Dow Jones& Company. It is calculated as the average of quotes of the day at the exchange closing time.

The defination and meaning of Dow Theory is A description of market behavior, invented by Charles Dow, which divided price moves into three types of trends: major (lasting from months to years), intermediate (weeks to months) and minor (days to weeks). A primary corollary is that of mutual confirmation of moves by both the Industrial Average and the Transportation Average, i.e. a significant move by one average must be confirmed by a similar move in the other. This action provides the theory with the signals.

The defination and meaning of Down payment is Money paid up front to make up the difference between the purchase price and loan amount.

The defination and meaning of Downside Volume is A daily, weekly or monthly summary of the volume transacted in all stocks which fell in the period. More loosely, down volume alludes to heavy volume during a period of generally declining prices.

The defination and meaning of Downtick is A trade is on a downtick when the last trade occurred at a price lower than the previous one.

The defination and meaning of Downtrend is Stock price is heading down.

The defination and meaning of Draft is An unconditional order in writing, signed by a person (drawer) such as a buyer, and addressed to another person (drawee), typically a bank, ordering the drawee to pay a stated sum of money to yet another person (payee), often a seller. A draft, also called a bill of exchange, may be payable to a named person or their order (order draft), or to bearer (bearer draft). The most common versions of a draft are:
• sight draft, which is payable on presentation or demand
• time (or usance) draft, which is payable at either:
- a future fixed (specific) date
- a future determinable date (e.g. 30, 60, 90 days, etc.)

The defination and meaning of Draft Offer document is Draft Offer document" means the offer document in draft stage. The draft offer documents are filed with SEBI, at least 21 days prior to the filing of the offer document with ROC/ SEs. SEBI may specifies changes, if any, in the draft offer document and the issuer or the Lead Merchant banker shall carry out such changes in the draft offer document before filing the offer document with ROC/SEs. The draft offer document is available on the SEBI website for public comments for a period of 21 days from the filing of the draft offer document with SEBI.

The defination and meaning of Drawdown is The reduction in account equity as a result of a trade or series of trades.

The defination and meaning of Drawee is The individual or firm on whom a draft is drawn. The drawee is instructed by the drawer to pay a specified sum of money to, or to the order of, the payee or to the bearer. In a documentary collection, the drawee is generally the buyer.

The defination and meaning of Dta is Double tax agreement. See Tax treaty.

The defination and meaning of Dual residence is Person or company resident in two or more countries under the law of those countries, because the two countries adopt different definitions of residence.

The defination and meaning of Due date is The date on which a bill of exchange or other instrument becomes due and payable.

The defination and meaning of Due Diligence is The process whereby an in-depth examination of a company’s business prospects is conducted.

The defination and meaning of Dumping is The practice of selling a product in a foreign market at an unfairly low price (a price which is lower than the cost in the home market, or which is lower than the cost of production) in order to gain a competitive advantage over other suppliers. Dumping is considered an unfair trade practice under the GATT and World Trade Organisation agreements; it is regulated by national governments through the imposition of anti-dumping duties, in some cases calculated to equal the difference between the product’s price in the importing and the exporting country.

The defination and meaning of Duration is Average duration provides a measure of a fund's interest-rate sensitivity the longer a fund's duration, the more sensitive the fund is to shifts in interest rates. The relationship between funds with different durations is straightforward: A fund with a duration of 10 years is twice as volatile as a fund with a five-year duration. Duration also gives an indication of how a fund's NAV will change as interest rates change. A fund with a five-year duration would be expected to lose 5% from its NAV if interest rates rose by one percentage point or gain 5% if interest rates fell by one percentage point.

The defination and meaning of Duration is A measure of exposure to interest rates.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Dutch Auction is A method of allocating shares in an IPO where you specify how much you’re willing to pay for how many shares.

The defination and meaning of Dynamic Data Exchange is Ability to automatically update an application from within another application.

The defination and meaning of Dynamic risks is Uncertainties, either pure or speculative, that are produced because of societal changes.

The defination and meaning of Early (premature) Withdrawal is A withdrawal of funds from an IRA, a 401(k) plan, or any tax qualified retirement plan, usually before age 59½. Early withdrawals are subject to tax penalties, though there are some exceptions.

The defination and meaning of Early Entry is A large price movement in one direction within the first 15 minutes after the open of the daily session.

The defination and meaning of Early Retirement Penalty is A special additional tax of 10% due if one takes a distribution from their retirement plans (such as a 401(k) or IRA prior to reaching age 59 ½ or meeting some

The defination and meaning of Earned Income is Compensation received due to your physical or mental efforts and activity. Includes wages/salary and net earnings from self-employment. Does not include passive income such as interest, dividends, or capital gains.
Examples: You or your spouse must have earned income in order to contribute to a traditional or Roth IRA.

The defination and meaning of Earned Income Rule is Rule regarding eligibility to contribute to certain types of IRAs. For a Traditional or Roth IRA, an individual must have earned income to contribute. Earned income includes but is not limited to wages, salaries, bonuses, tips, commissions and taxable alimony.

The defination and meaning of Earned premium is The portion of premium that applies to the expired part of the policy period. Insurance premiums are payable in advance but the insur-ance company does not fully earn them until the policy period expires.

The defination and meaning of Earnings before taxes is Sales revenue less cost of sales, operating expenses, and interest, before taxes have been paid.

The defination and meaning of Earnings Estimates is The estimated earnings projected for a company for a fiscal year.

The defination and meaning of Earnings form is A commercial property form without a 50 percent or more coinsurance coverage.

The defination and meaning of Earnings multiple approach is A group life plan in which an employee receives one or two times salary in life insurance coverage.

The defination and meaning of Earnings per Share (EPS) is After tax 12-month's earnings divided by the number of shares outstanding.

The defination and meaning of Earnings stripping is Practice of reducing the taxable income of a corporation by paying excessive amounts of interest to related third parties.

The defination and meaning of Earthquake insurance is Covers a building and its contents, but includes a large percentage deductible on each. A special policy or endorsement exists because earthquakes are not covered by standard homeowners or most business policies.

The defination and meaning of EBIT is Earnings before interest and taxes. Also known as operating income.

The defination and meaning of EBITDA is Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Adds these items back to reported earnings to more accurately reflect real cash earnings of company. Similar to operating cash flow, except operating cash flow also considers changes in levels of inventories and receivables.

The defination and meaning of ECN is Electronic Communication Network. ECNs are expected to supplement or even replace conventional stock exchanges over the next one to two years.

The defination and meaning of Econometrics is The application of statistical and mathematical methods in the field of economics to test and quantify economic theories and the solutions to economic problems.

The defination and meaning of Economic double taxation is See: Double taxation, economic and juridical

The defination and meaning of Economic loss is Total financial loss resulting from the death or disability of a wage earner, or from the destruction of property. Includes the loss of earnings, medical expenses, funeral expenses, the cost of restoring or replacing property, and legal expenses. It does not include noneconomic losses, such as pain caused by an injury.

The defination and meaning of Education IRA is See Coverdell Education Savings Account.

The defination and meaning of Effective Date is The day a newly registered security can be offered for sale.

The defination and meaning of Effective rent is The gross rent payable per month by the occupiers which includes the base rent, maintenance charges, imputed costs of loss of interest on security deposit and rental advance. The effective rent indicates the total cash outflow of an occupier every month on account of leasing any property.

The defination and meaning of Effective tax rate is The rate at which a taxpayer would be taxed if his tax liability were taxed at a constant rate rather than progressively. This rate is computed by determining what percentage the taxpayer’s tax liability is of his total taxable income.

The defination and meaning of Efficient Market Theory is All known information is already discounted by the market and reflected in the price due to market participants acting upon the information.

The defination and meaning of Elasticity is The ability to recover an original configuration.

The defination and meaning of Electronic commerce / e-commerce is The sale of products such as insurance over the Internet.

The defination and meaning of Electronic Communications Network is Independent execution systems set up by brokerage firms, matching new retail limit orders with compatible orders already in the system.

The defination and meaning of Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) is The computer-to-computer transmission of business messages (such as purchase orders, invoices, booking instructions, etc.) according to an agreed standard (such as EDIFACT).

The defination and meaning of Eligibility is A criteria that has been standardised by lenders to evaluate willingness and ability of a customer to qualify for a loan scheme.

The defination and meaning of Elimination period is The period that must elapse before disability income is payable under a health insurance policy covering disability income loss.

The defination and meaning of Elliot wave is Theory of cyclical movements of prices. Follows certain indicators that predict and confirm price movements. The Elliot Wave Theory was originally published by Ralph Nelson Elliot in 1939. It is a pattern recognition theory. It holds that the stock market follows a pattern of five waves up and three waves down to form a complete cycle. Many technicians believe that this pattern can hold true for as short a time period as one day. However, it is generally used to measure long periods of time in the market.

The defination and meaning of Elliott Wave Theory is A theory of market behavior published by Ralph Nelson Elliott in the 1930s. According to the theory, the stock market follows a pattern of five waves up and three waves down to form a complete cycle.

The defination and meaning of Emerging Markets is Developing countries.

The defination and meaning of EMI is Equated monthly Installment (s) paid by the customer towards repayment of loan amount over the loan period.


The defination and meaning of Employee stock ownership plans (ESOPS) is Deferred profit-sharing plans in which investment is usually in stock issued by the employer.

The defination and meaning of Employer Matching Program is An employer's potential additional payment to an employee's 401(k) plan contingent on the extent of an employee's participation in the plan.

Example: A popular employer matching program is "50% of the first 6%." This means that for every dollar an employee contributes to the 401(k) plan, the employer adds 50 cents. Once the employee reaches contributions equaling 6% of gross pay, employer contributions cease until the following year.

Note, however, that if the employee does not contribute at least 6% of salary to the 401(k) plan, the worker forfeits additional compensation from the employer.

Not every 401(k) plan has an employer matching program.

The defination and meaning of Employer-sponsored Retirement Plan is A Defined Contribution or Defined Benefit retirement plan. The most common types are 401(k), Profit Sharing Plans and Pension Plans. Other types include SEP, Keogh and SIMPLE plans.

The defination and meaning of Employment practices liability coverage is Liabil-ity insurance for employers that covers wrongful ter-mination, discrimination, or sexual harassment toward the insured?s employees or former employees.

The defination and meaning of Endorsement is A written form attached to an insurance policy that alters the policy?s coverage, terms, or conditions. Sometimes called a rider.

The defination and meaning of Endowment is Endowment insurance pays the sum assured upon the death of the life insured during the policy term or on survival to the end of the policy term.

The defination and meaning of Endowment insurance is Life insurance that pays the face amount at the end of a specified time period if the insured is alive; the face amount is payable in the event of death before the end of the period.

The defination and meaning of Endowment Plan is A plan in which the amount is paid to a policyholder if he outlives the tenure of the contract or to the beneficiary if the insured person dies before the date on which the policy matures.

The defination and meaning of Energy or Royalty Trust is Investment vehicles that may engage in the development, acquisition, and/or production of oil and gas reserves. The trust receives royalty income from producing properties (essentially, net cash flow) and then sells interests in the trust (called trust units) to investors. Conventional oil and gas royalty trusts are actively managed portfolios holding assets of mature producing properties. Substantially all of the cash flow generated by the oil and gas assets, net of certain deductions, such as administrative expenses and management fees, is passed on to the unit holders as royalty income. Capital expenses may also be deducted, but are usually subject to restrictions on the amount. The distributions are highly dependent upon the cash flow generated by the trust. In general, the largest variable in determining the level of cash flow is the price of crude oil and natural gas. Royalty trusts provide an alternative (from owning the shares of individual companies) for investors to participate in the oil and gas sector.

The defination and meaning of Enterprise risk management is Approach for managing both pure and speculative risks together, another name for integrated risk management.

The defination and meaning of Entire contract clause is A life insurance contract stating that the policy and the application form constitute the entire contract between the parties.

The defination and meaning of Entity is In general for tax purposes, an organization, person or party that possesses separate existence. Options include corporations, partnerships, estates and trusts.

The defination and meaning of Entrance Fee is The entrance fee or the joining fee is payable on approval of your application form. Again this fee varies depending upon the issuing bank and the type of card requested and is somewhere between Rs 100 to Rs 400. More often than not, this fee is waived.

The defination and meaning of Entry is The point at which a trader gets into a position in the market.

The defination and meaning of Entry Load is Mutual Funds charge investors an entry load of upto 2.25% to compensate for distribution costs. It is charged at the time an investor purchases the units of a scheme. Since August 2009, SEBI had done away with entry load in cases where the investors directly invested in mutual funds without going through an agent or a distributor.

The defination and meaning of Envelope is An envelope is comprised of two moving averages (see Moving Average). One moving average is shifted upward and the second moving average is shifted downward. The Envelope is plotted around a price plot or indicator. Envelopes define the upper and lower boundaries of a security’s normal trading range. A sell signal is generated when the security reaches the upper band whereas a buy signal is generated at the lower band. The optimum percentage shift depends on the volatility of the security–the more volatile, the larger the percentage. The logic behind envelopes is that overzealous buyers and sellers push the price to the extremes (i.e., the upper and lower bands), at which point the prices often stabilize by moving to more realistic levels. This is similar to the interpretation of Bollinger Bands.

The defination and meaning of Environmental impairment liability coverage is A form of insurance designed to cover losses and liabilities arising from damage to property caused by pollution.

The defination and meaning of Environmental tax is Tax imposed for environmental reasons, e.g. to provide an incentive to reduce certain emissions to an optimal level or taxes on environmentally harmful products.

The defination and meaning of EPS is Earnings per share.

The defination and meaning of Equal shares is A method of apportionment in which insurers covering the same loss share that loss equally, up to their respective limits of liability.

The defination and meaning of Equal treatment is General principle of taxation that requires that taxpayers pay an equal amount of tax if their circumstances are equal.

The defination and meaning of Equilibrium Market is A price region that represents a balance between demand and supply.

The defination and meaning of Equilibrium Price is U.S. dollars on deposit with a bank outside of the United States and, consequently, outside the jurisdiction of the United States. The bank could be either a foreign bank or a subsidiary of a U.S. bank.

The defination and meaning of Equities is Common and preferred stocks, which represent a share in the ownership of a company.

The defination and meaning of Equity is In investments, the ownership interest of shareholders. In a corporation, stocks as opposed to bonds.

The defination and meaning of Equity Financing is The dollar value of securities issued in accordance with a TSX or TSX Venture Exchange approved transaction. The value equals the number of securities multiplied by the offering price. The various forms of financial instruments may have an effect on determining the price or the number of securities.

The defination and meaning of Equity Fund is This is a scheme that invests only in equity.

The defination and meaning of Equity linked mortgage is A mortgage whereby the interest on the principal in part or in whole is calculated, usually yearly, by reference on the security, eg. It may reflect annual increase or possible decreases, in the annual return on, or the value of, the property in which the mortgage is secured.

The defination and meaning of Equity Option is An option contract that grants the holder the right to buy or sell a specific number of shares of stock at a specified price during a specific period of time.

The defination and meaning of Equity Options is Options on shares of an individual common stock.

The defination and meaning of Equity Price is The price per share traded.

The defination and meaning of Equity Value is The total dollar value of volume traded on one side of the transaction for a specified period. It equals price multiplied by volume.

The defination and meaning of Equity Volume is The total number of shares traded on one side of the transaction.

The defination and meaning of Equity-Linked Savings Schemes (ELSS) is The major portion of investment in ELSS is in equity. The dividends in this scheme are tax-free.

The defination and meaning of Equivolume chart is Richard Arms created this type of chart. It measures the relationship between price and volume. Price is measured on the vertical axis and volume is measured on the horizontal axis.

The defination and meaning of ERISA is The Employee Retirement Income Security Act.

The defination and meaning of Errors and omissions coverage (E&O) is A profes-sional liability policy covering the policyholder for negligent acts and omissions that may harm his or her clients.

The defination and meaning of Escalation clause is Specified in lease agreements wherein renewals of lease period are built in. It involves an increment in the base rent at every renewal of a lease agreement and is generally a percentage rate that is either pre agreed or negotiated before the renewal of the lease agreement.

The defination and meaning of Escrow account is Funds that a lender collects to pay monthly premiums in mortgage and homeowners insurance, and sometimes to pay property taxes.

The defination and meaning of Escrowed Securities is The outstanding securities of an issuer that are not freely tradable, because they are subject to an escrow agreement that restricts the ability of certain security holders of that issuer from trading or otherwise dealing in those securities until certain conditions are satisfied.

The defination and meaning of Estate duty/tax is See: Death duties

The defination and meaning of Estate taxes is Refers to the property taxes that the policyholder has to pay on his fixed assets. These could include buildings, land, plant and machinery, automobiles etc.

The defination and meaning of Estimated assessment is For income tax purposes, where the records kept, particularly by small traders, are inadequate for a precise calculation of tax due, it may be necessary for the taxable income or profits to be calculated by the tax authorities on the basis of an estimate.

The defination and meaning of Estimated EPS Change is Change in estimated mean earnings for the current fiscal year from the last month, last three months and last six months to the current month.

The defination and meaning of Estimation is Estimating the value of the asset, especially if the asset is property that is not newly developed. Same as Valuation.

The defination and meaning of Estoppel is A legal doctrine in which a person may be required to do something or be prevented from doing something that is inconsistent with previous behaviour; may prevent an insurer from denying liability after a loss.

The defination and meaning of Euro is The national currency of EU countries: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Slovenia, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain. In circulation since 2002.

The defination and meaning of Eurocurrency is A currency being used or traded outside the country which issued the currency.

The defination and meaning of Eurodollar is Dollars deposited in foreign banks, with the futures contract reflecting the rates offered between London branches of top US banks and foreign banks.

The defination and meaning of Eurodollar Market is A banking market in U.S. dollars outside the U.S.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of European Currency Unit (ECU) is A currency unit that has been in use by European Monetary System from 1979 till 1998.

The defination and meaning of European Monetary System (EMS) is EU countries relation in currency sphere, which has a goal to provide a stable national currencies rates ratio. Another goal is the facilitation of stabilization of foreign economic relations in general.

The defination and meaning of European Terms is A method of quoting exchange rates, which measures the amount of foreign currency needed to buy one U.S. dollar; i.e., foreign currency unit per dollar. See Reciprocal of European Terms.

The defination and meaning of European-Style Option is Options that can be exercised only on their expiration date.

The defination and meaning of European-Style Options is An option contract that may be exercised only during a specified period of time just prior to its expiration.

The defination and meaning of Evasion is A term that is difficult to define but which is generally used to mean illegal arrangements where liability to tax is hidden or ignored, i.e. the taxpayer pays less tax than he is legally obligated to pay by hiding income or information from the tax authorities.

The defination and meaning of Evening Star Pattern is The bearish counterpart of the morning star pattern; a top reversal, it should be acted on if it arises after an uptrend.

The defination and meaning of Evidence of Insurability is Any statement or proof of a person's physical condition, occupation, etc affecting acceptance of the applicant for insurance.

The defination and meaning of Ex Dividend is The holder of shares purchased ex dividend is not entitled to an upcoming already-declared dividend, but is entitled to future dividends.

The defination and meaning of Ex Right is The holder of shares purchased ex rights is not entitled to already-declared rights, but is entitled to future rights issues.

The defination and meaning of Ex-D Date is Ex-dividend/distribution date. The date that the buyer of a stock is not entitled to the upcoming declared dividend/distribution, because the buyer will not be a holder of record. The ex-d date is two clearing days before the record date. The exchange that the issue is listed on sets the ex-d date.

The defination and meaning of Ex-Dividend is The day after dividends are paid.

The defination and meaning of Ex-Dividend Date is The date on which a fund's Net Asset Value (NAV) will fall by an amount equal to the dividend and/or capital gains distribution (although market movements may alter the fund's closing NAV somewhat).

The defination and meaning of Examination is The checking of a taxpayer's tax return, accounts, self-assessment calculations, etc. The process may or may not include an audit of the taxpayer's own books.

The defination and meaning of Exception ratings is Rates set at a certain percentage above the general commodity rates because they apply to commodities that require special handling.

The defination and meaning of Excess Contribution is Any IRA contribution that exceeds the maximum contribution limits permitted by law. Penalty taxes apply for each year an excess contribution exists.

The defination and meaning of Excess of loss reinsurance is A contract between an insurer and a reinsurer, whereby the insurer agrees to pay a specified portion of a claim and the reinsurer to pay all or a part of the claim above that amount.

The defination and meaning of Exchange control (EC) is Government regulations covering the inflow and outflow of foreign exchange.

The defination and meaning of Exchange for Physicals is A transaction generally used by two hedgers who want to exchange futures for cash positions. Also referred to as "against actuals" or "versus cash."

The defination and meaning of Exchange of information is Most tax treaties contain a provision under which the tax authorities of one country may request the tax authorities of the other country to supply information on a taxpayer. Information may only be used for tax purposes in the receiving country and it must be kept confidential, i.e. it can only be disclosed to the persons or authorities concerned with the assessment or collection of taxes covered by the treaty.

The defination and meaning of Exchange Offering Prospectus (EOP) is A form of prospectus that allows a company to conduct a prospectus offering through the facilities of a stock exchange, rather than issuing them directly to the public. The company then applies to list the securities on the exchange.

The defination and meaning of Exchange Privilege is A feature offered by some mutual fund in which an investor is able to switch from one scheme to another within the fund family without having to pay any charges. Same as Switching.

The defination and meaning of Exchange rate/ foreign exchange rate is The rate which would apply when changing the money of one country for that of another country.

The defination and meaning of Exchange-Traded Fund (ETF) is A special type of financial trust that allows an investor to buy an entire basket of stocks through a single security, which tracks and matches the returns of a stock market index. ETFs are considered to be a special type of index mutual fund, but they are listed on an exchange and trade like a stock. Also known as an index participation unit (IPU).

The defination and meaning of Exchange-Traded Funds is Collections of stocks that are bought and sold as a package on an exchange, principally the American Stock Exchange (AMEX), but also the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE).

The defination and meaning of Exchangeable Security is A security of an issuer that is exchangeable for securities of another issuer (usually a subsidiary) in accordance with the terms of the exchange feature. The exchange may be at the option of the holder or at the option of the issuer of the securities.

The defination and meaning of Excise tax is A tax imposed on an act, occupation, privilege, manufacture, sale, or consumption.

The defination and meaning of Exclusion is A provision in an insurance policy that eliminates coverage for certain risks, people, property classes, or locations.

The defination and meaning of Exclusions is Term used to describe income which is exempt, i.e. not included, in the calculation of gross income for tax purposes.

The defination and meaning of Exclusive agent is A captive agent, or a person who represents only one insurance company and is restricted by agreement from submitting business to any other company unless it is first rejected by the agent?s company.

The defination and meaning of Execution is The Process of completing an order or deal.

The defination and meaning of Executive Card is Executive Card, Silver Card and Gold Card are the terms used by issuing banks to differentiate between the levels of services offered on each. Naturally the gold card offers better features, higher insurance covers and more facilities. There is also an element of esteem associate with gold cards. However, all these features do not come cheap. Gold cards have the highest fees and service charges associated with them.

The defination and meaning of Exempt Issuer is A listed issuer that has satisfied listing requirements as outlined in Section 502 of the Listing Requirements Manual. An exempt issuer is not subject to special reporting rules. This status is generally reserved for senior listed issuers.

The defination and meaning of Exemption method is See: Foreign tax relief

The defination and meaning of Exemptions is Tax laws frequently provide specific exemptions for persons, items or transactions, etc. which would otherwise be taxed. Exemptions may be given for social, economic or other reasons.

The defination and meaning of Exercise is The action taken by the holder of a call option if he wishes to purchase the underlying futures contract or by the holder of a put option if he wishes to sell the underlying futures contract.

The defination and meaning of Exercise settlement amount is The difference between the exercise price of the option and the exercise settlement value of the index on the day an exercise notice is tendered, multiplied by the index multiplier.

The defination and meaning of Exit is The point at which a trader closes out of a trade.

The defination and meaning of Exit Load is The commission or charge paid when an investor exits from a mutual fund. They are basically imposed to discourage withdrawals.

The defination and meaning of Expanded Traded Hours is Additional trading hours of specific futures and options contracts at the Chicago Board of Trade that overlap with business hours in other time zones.

The defination and meaning of Expatriation rules is Rules under which a taxpayer continues to be subject to tax when he relinquishes his residence or his citizenship in order to avoid tax.

The defination and meaning of Expected loss ratio is The ratio of losses incurred to premiums earned; anticipated when rates are first for-mulated.

The defination and meaning of Expected return is The average possible return for an investment.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Expediting expenses is The insurer agrees to pay reasonable extra cost for expediting the repair of machinery, including overtime and express transportation.

The defination and meaning of Expense ratio is Percentage of each premium rupee that goes to insurers? expenses including overhead, marketing, and commissions.

The defination and meaning of Expenses is Costs that are currently deductible, as opposed to capital expenditures, which may not be currently deducted but must be depreciated or amortized over the useful life of the property.

The defination and meaning of Experience is Record of losses.

The defination and meaning of Experience rating is The system of rating or pricing insurance in which the future premium reflects past loss experience of the insured.

The defination and meaning of Expert Systems is Dynamic but not adaptable, expert systems are rule-driven systems that cannot learn as the result of new information being fed into its system as opposed to neural networks, which can. Most successful in financial applications where governing rules are consistent.

The defination and meaning of Expiration is The last day on which an option can be traded.

The defination and meaning of Expiration Cycle is An expiration cycle relates to the dates on which options on a particular underlying security expire. A given option, will be assigned to one of three cycles, the January cycle, the February cycle or the March cycle. LEAPS are not included in this cycle.

The defination and meaning of Expiration Date is Options on futures generally expire on a specific date during the month preceding the futures contract delivery month. For example, an option on a March futures contract expires in February but is referred to as a March option because its exercise would result in a March futures contract position.

The defination and meaning of Expiration Time is The time of day by which all exercise notices must be received on the expiration date.

The defination and meaning of Expiry is The termination of a term life insurance policy at the end of its period of coverage.

The defination and meaning of Exponential moving average is An exponential (or exponentially weighted) moving average is calculated by applying a percentage of today’s closing price to yesterday’s moving average value. Exponential moving averages place more weight on recent prices. For example, to calculate a 9% exponential moving average of IBM, you would first take today’s closing price and multiply it by 9%. Next, you would add this product to the value of yesterday’s moving average multiplied by 91% (100% – 9% = 91%). [equis.com]

The defination and meaning of Exponential Moving Average (EMA) is Exponential moving averages place more weight upon the later moves in the time period than the earlier moves. We use exponential on our short-term moving averages (10 and 18) as we are using them as indicators for short term plays and want to see the latest trend in movement the best we can. It is also known as "exponentially weighted moving average".

The defination and meaning of Export broker is An individual or firm that brings together buyers and sellers for a fee without taking part in actual sales transactions.

The defination and meaning of Export credit insurance is Special insurance coverage of exporters to protect against commercial and political risks for making an international sale. Export credit insurance is available from insurance underwriters as well as from government agencies. Examples of well known public export credit agencies include EXGO, HIH Winterheur and Trade Indemnity.

The defination and meaning of Export duty is Tax levied on exports of basic commodities entering into world trade, such as rubber, copper, palm oil, sisal, tea, cocoa and coffee

The defination and meaning of Export license is A government document granting the ‘Licensee’ the right to export a specified quantity of a commodity to a specified country. This license may be required in some countries for most or all exports and in other countries only under special circumstances.

The defination and meaning of Exposure is Possibility of loss.

The defination and meaning of Exposure doctrine is A liability limit that provides coverage when a person is exposed to a product or dangerous substance.

The defination and meaning of Express warranty is A warranty actually stated in a contract.

The defination and meaning of Extended coverage is An endorsement added to an insurance policy, or clause within a policy, that provides additional coverage for risks other than those in a basic policy.

The defination and meaning of Extended Hours Trading is Trades executed outside normal market hours.

The defination and meaning of Extended limited tax liability is Principle according to which certain taxpayers (i.e. those subject to individual income tax, net worth tax and succession duty) who leave a tax jurisdiction and move to a low-tax country are subject to taxation in the former country of residence for a certain period of time after the move.

The defination and meaning of Extended Term Insurance is An option provided in some policies to continue the insurance for a particular insured amount as per the policy condition as term insurance.

The defination and meaning of Extent of loan is The extent or percentage of loan a home finance company would disburse, given the value of the property. Same as Exposure.

The defination and meaning of External Financing is Financing projects through new issues of securities; debt and/or equity.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of External Risk Factors is The external factors that influence the company’s performance vis-a-vis share performance, which has to be spelt out by the company in the offer document. These are usually factors like changes in macroeconomic variables which are outside the control of the company.

The defination and meaning of Extra Dividend / Distribution is A dividend/distribution paid in addition to the regularly established dividend/distribution of the issuer. Like all dividends/distributions, it may be paid in securities or cash and the amount, payable date, and record date are established by the issuer. The exchange that the issue is listed on sets the ex-dividend/distribution (ex-d) date for entitlement. Extra dividends/distributions are sometimes referred to as special dividends/distributions.

The defination and meaning of Extra expense insurance is The consequential prop-erty insurance that covers the extra expense incurred by the interruption of a business; the policy pays if the business does not close down but continues in alternative facilities, with higher than normal costs.

The defination and meaning of Extraordinary Items is Charges for items that are both unusual in nature and infrequent in occurrence, such as earthquake-related losses.

The defination and meaning of Extrinsic Value is See Time Value.

The defination and meaning of F Statistics is The ratio of the variance explained by treatments to the unexpected variance.

The defination and meaning of F.A.O is Food and Agriculture Organisation

The defination and meaning of Face amount is In a life insurance contract, the stated sum of money to be paid to the beneficiary upon the insured?s death.

The defination and meaning of Face Value is The cash denomination of the individual debt instrument. It is the amount of money that the holder of a debt instrument receives back from the issuer on the debt instrument's maturity date. Face value is also referred to as par value or principal.

The defination and meaning of Face Value is Value of security shown on certificate. Also called par value.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Facilities management is The co-ordination of many specialist disciplines to create the optimum working environment for staff.

The defination and meaning of Factoring is In the export trade: the financial service consisting of the granting of a cash advance against accounts receivable from foreign customers. More generally, a range of financing and risk management services offered by specialised firms, called factors, to sellers/exporters, particularly those who deal with a stream of low-value, short-term foreign accounts receivable. The exporter transfers title to its foreign accounts receivable to a factoring house in exchange for cash at a discount from the face value. Other basic services offered by factors include: foreign credit risk assessment, collection of overdue foreign accounts, and administration of accounting ledgers.

The defination and meaning of Facultative reinsurance is A reinsurance policy that provides an insurer with coverage for specific individual risks that are unusual or so large that they aren?t covered in the insurance company?s reinsurance trea-ties. This can include policies for jumbo jets or oil rigs. Reinsurers have no obligation to take on facultative reinsurance, but can assess each risk individually. By contrast, under treaty reinsurance, the reinsurer agrees to assume a certain percentage of entire classes of busi-ness, such as various kinds of auto, up to preset limits.

The defination and meaning of Fade is Selling a rising price or buying a falling price. A trader fading an up opening would be short, for example.

The defination and meaning of Fail rent is The rent determined by a rent officer (or, on appeal, by a rent assessment committee) under a regulated tenancy and registered.

The defination and meaning of Failure Swings is The inability of price to reaffirm a new high in an uptrend or a new low in a downtrend.

The defination and meaning of Fair rental value is In a dwelling policy, the rent the building could have earned at the time of the loss whether or not it was actually rented.

The defination and meaning of Fair Value is The true value of a stock based on criteria of the user’s choosing. A stock is said to be overvalued when the share price exceeds the fair value.

The defination and meaning of Fair Values is The theoretical prices generated by an option pricing model.

The defination and meaning of Fallen Angel is An IPO trading below its issue price in the aftermarket.

The defination and meaning of Family Policy is A life insurance policy that provides insurance on all/several members of the family in a single contract. Usually the principal earner has a whole life insurance and the spouse and the children have smaller term insurance including those born after the policy is issued.

The defination and meaning of Fast Market is A declaration that market conditions in the futures pit are so disorderly temporarily to the extent that floor brokers are not held responsible for the execution of orders.

The defination and meaning of FCI is Food Corporation of India

The defination and meaning of FCNR is FCNR deposits stands for Foreign Currency Non-Repatriable account deposits. This is a Fixed Deposit Foreign Currency account and not a savings account. Deposits in this account can be made in any of the major currencies like US Dollar, UK Pound, Canadian Dollar, Deutsche Mark, Japanese Yen and Euro.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of FDIC is The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by the Congress to maintain stability and public confidence in the nation's financial system by: insuring deposits, examining and supervising financial institutions for safety and soundness and consumer protection, managing receiverships.

The defination and meaning of Fed is Federal Reserve Board.

The defination and meaning of Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) is The regulatory agency responsible for administering bank depository insurance in the United States.

The defination and meaning of Federal Funds is Member bank deposits at the Federal Reserve; these funds are loaned by member banks to other member banks.

The defination and meaning of Federal Funds Rate is The rate of interest charged for the use of federal funds.

The defination and meaning of Federal Housing Administration (FHA) is A division of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development that insures residential mortgage loans and sets construction standards.

The defination and meaning of Federal Reserve System is A central banking system in the United States, created by the Federal Reserve Act in 1913, designed to assist the nation in attaining its economic and financial goals. The structure of the Federal Reserve System includes a Board of Governors, the Federal Open Market Committee, and 12 Federal Reserve Banks.

The defination and meaning of Federal Reserve System (Fed) is An independent financial institution, which serves as the US central bank. It was founded on December 23, 1913.

The defination and meaning of Fee is Fees charged by central or local governments can be distinguished from taxes when they are charged as payments for the supply of particular services by the authorities. Fees are usually not considered taxes when listing taxes to be included in a double tax treaty.

The defination and meaning of Feed Ratio is A ratio used to express the relationship of feeding costs to the dollar value of livestock. See Hog/Corn Ratio and Steer/Corn Ratio.

The defination and meaning of Feedforward Computation is Neural network in which neurons receive information only from the previous layer and send outputs only to the following layer.

The defination and meaning of FERA is An act to regulate certain payments dealing in foreign exchange, securities, the import & export of currency and acquisition of immovable property by foreigners. Under Section 31 (1) of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act ( FERA) of 1973, it is mandatory for foreign corporations, which are not incorporated in India to obtain permission from the Reserve Bank Of India (RBI) to acquire, hold, transfer or dispose off in any manner (expect by way of lease for a period not exceeding five years) any immovable property in India.

The defination and meaning of Fiat money is Fiat money is paper money that was made legal tender by law but not backed by gold or silver.

The defination and meaning of Fibonacci Ratio is The relationship between two numbers in the fibonacci sequence. The sequence for the first three numbers is 0.618, 1.0, and 1.618. In general terms, the fibonacci series is 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, etc.

The defination and meaning of Fibonacci ratios and retracements is They can be applied both to price and time, although it is more common to use them on prices. The most common levels used in retracement analysis are 61.8%, 38% and 50%. When a move starts to reverse the 3 price levels are calculated (and drawn using horizontal lines) using a movements low to high. These retracement levels are then interpreted as likely levels where counter moves will stop. It is interesting to note that the Fibonacci ratios were also known to Greek and Egyptian mathematicians.The ratio was known as the Golden Mean and was applied in music and architecture. A Fibonacci spiral is a logarithmic spiral that tracks natural growth patterns.

The defination and meaning of Fidelity bond is A form of protection that covers policyholders for losses that they incur as a result of fraudulent acts by specified individuals. It usually insures a business for losses caused by the dishonest acts of its employees.

The defination and meaning of Fiduciary bond is A type of surety bond, sometimes called a probate bond, which is required of certain fiduciaries, such as executors and trustees, that guarantees the performance of their responsibilities.

The defination and meaning of Fiduciary Duty is The highest standard of responsibility on the part of an investment advisor. An investment advisor has a fiduciary duty and is required to choose a path in the client’s best interests regardless of compensation the advisor might or might not receive. Compare to a suitability standard, a lower standard of care placed on brokers.

The defination and meaning of Fiduciary liability is Legal responsibility of a fiduci-ary to safeguard assets of beneficiaries. A fiduciary, for example a pension fund manager, is required to manage investments held in trust in the best interest of beneficiaries. Fiduciary liability insurance covers breaches of fiduciary duty such as misstatements or misleading statements, errors and omissions.

The defination and meaning of Field is Field is the open area or background on a coin.

The defination and meaning of Field audit is An examination of a tax return by tax authorities at the taxpayer's place of business.

The defination and meaning of Filing is A copy of prospectus having attached to the documents required to be submitted to the Registrar of Companies (ROC).

The defination and meaning of Filing Statement is A disclosure document submitted by a listed company to outline material changes in its affairs. Filing statements are not used for the purposes of a financing.

The defination and meaning of Fill is The process of completing a customer's order to buy or sell a currency pair.

The defination and meaning of Fill or Kill (FOK) Order is A tradable limit order marked "FOK" will trade as much stock as possible upon entry, but will immediately cancel or kill any unfilled volume.

The defination and meaning of Fill Order is An order that must be filled immediately (or canceled).

The defination and meaning of Fill price is The price at which a buy or sell order was executed.

The defination and meaning of Fill-or-Kill is A customer order that is a price limit order that must be filled immediately or canceled.

The defination and meaning of Filter is A device or program that separates data, signal or information in accordance with specified criteria.

The defination and meaning of Filter Point is The time at which a portfolio insurance program makes an adjusting trade.

The defination and meaning of Final Expenses is Expenses incurred at the time of a person's death. These include, funeral costs, court expenses associated with probating his or her will, current bills or debt, and taxes.

The defination and meaning of Final tax is Under tax treaties the withholding tax charged by the country of source may be limited to a rate lower than the rate which would be charged in other circumstances - this reduced rate is then the final tax in the country of source.

The defination and meaning of Finance Bill is The Bill presented in Parliament immediately after the presentation of the Budget, which details changes in tax policy announced in Budget.

The defination and meaning of Financial Analysis Auditing Compliance Tracking System (FACTS) is The National Futures Association's computerized system of maintaining financial records of its member firms and monitoring their financial conditions.

The defination and meaning of Financial Instrument is There are two basic types: (1) a debt instrument, which is a loan with an agreement to pay back funds with interest; (2) an equity security, which is share or stock in a company.

The defination and meaning of Financial Leverage Ratio is The leverage ratio, which is total assets divided by shareholders' equity, is an all-purpose debt gauge. A company with no debt would have a ratio of one, and the higher the ratio, the more debt.

The defination and meaning of Financial risk is The risk that a firm will be unable to meet its financial obligations.

The defination and meaning of Financial Risk is Additional risk borne by shareholders because of a firm's use of debt.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Financial risks is Risk involving credit, foreign exchange, commodity trading, and interest rate; may involve chance for gain as well as loss.

The defination and meaning of Financial statement analysis is A method of risk identification in which each item on a firm?s balance sheet and income statement is analysed regarding potential risks.

The defination and meaning of Financials is Financial statements including operating statement, balance sheet, and statement of cash flows.

The defination and meaning of Financing is The function of planning and controlling the supply of funds.

The defination and meaning of Fine weight is Fine weight is the metallic weight of a coin, ingot, or bar. It is different from item's gross weight which includes the weight of the alloying metal.

The defination and meaning of Fineness is Fineness is the purity of a precious metal measured in 1,000 parts of an alloy For instance, a gold bar of .995 fineness means 995 parts of gold and 5 parts of another metal.

The defination and meaning of Fire is Combustion in which oxidation takes place so rapidly that a flame or glow is produced.

The defination and meaning of Fire certificate is A certificate covering matters of safety required under the legislation for hotels, boarding houses, factories, offices shops and railway premises, excluding those buildings containing less than a minimum number of employees. In order to obtain a fire certificate,one must apply to a fire officer, who then inspects the building and issues a list of requirements (eg. Fire escape doors/stairways). Once the fire officer is satisfied that those requirements have been met he will issue the fire certificate. It enables fire officers, in the event of an emergency, to have prior knowledge inter alia of the permitted number of people on each floor; it also informs officials if any authorised inflammables /explosives materials are found on the premises.

The defination and meaning of Fire insurance is Coverage protecting property against losses caused by a fire or lightning that is usually included in homeowners or commercial multiple peril policies.

The defination and meaning of Firm Allotment is Out of the total amount the company proposes to raise in the market, some portion is fixed to the promoters in order to avoid diluting their stake in the company. This is called Firm Allotment.

The defination and meaning of First Notice Day is According to Chicago Board of Trade rules, the first day on which a notice of intent to deliver a commodity in fulfillment of a given month's futures contract can be made by the clearinghouse to a buyer. The clearinghouse also informs the sellers whom they have been matched up with.

The defination and meaning of First Unpaid Premium(FUP) is First unpaid premium refers to the first default in paying premium by the policy holder. On payment of the due premium a receipt is issued and this receipt indicates the date of next due. If this due premium is not paid that date becomes the date of FUP.

The defination and meaning of Fiscal deficit is When the government's receipts fall short of its expenditures, it borrows money to bridge the gap. The excess of total expenditure over (non-borrowed) receipts is called fiscal deficit.

The defination and meaning of Fiscal policy is Part of economic policy which relates to taxation and public expenditure.

The defination and meaning of Fiscal transparency is "Looking through" an entity and attributing profits and losses directly to the entity's members. The profits of certain forms of enterprises are taxed in the hands of the members rather than at the level of the enterprise. Often occurs in the case of a partnership for example.

The defination and meaning of Fiscal year is Any 12-month period which is set for accounting purpose of an enterprise.

The defination and meaning of Fitouts is Relate to the interior permanent furnishings required in a property including HVAC ducting, fire protection system implementation, establishment of workstations and telephone/computer cabling among others, in order to make the property fit for usage.

The defination and meaning of Fixed annuity is An annuity that pays the annuitant a guaranteed, fixed return every month for a fixed pre-mium. The guarantee is based on the expected return of the underlying investments of the insurance com-pany. (See Annuity)

The defination and meaning of Fixed deposit is A sum of money given to a bank, financial institution or company whereby the receiving entity pays interest at a specified percentage for the time duration of the deposit. At the end of the time period of the deposit the amount that is originally given is returned to the investor. Fixed deposits are also known as term deposits.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Fixed income is Income which does not fluctuate over a period of time, such as interest on bonds and debentures, or dividends from preference shares as opposed to dividend income from ordinary shares.

The defination and meaning of Fixed installment is Payment of fixed installments over the tenure of the loan.

The defination and meaning of Fixed Term Contract is A Forward Exchange contract due on a specific date. These best suit a customer who wants to be certain of the date of delivery. If delivery takes place prior to due date (pre-delivery), the contract rate may be subject to adjustment.

The defination and meaning of Fixed-amount option is A life insurance option allow-ing the beneficiary to take the proceeds in the form of a fixed periodic payment.

The defination and meaning of Fixed-period option is Payment of a death benefit in equal instalments over a specified time period.

The defination and meaning of Flag is A brief consolidation pattern within a steep advance (or decline) generally in the form of a compact rectangle, tilted against the prevailing trend, and resembling a flag. Similar to a pennant, triangle or wedge, it is a continuation type pattern.

The defination and meaning of Flash Fill is Order filled immediately by hand signal on the trading floor.

The defination and meaning of Flat is Term describing a trading book with no market exposure.

The defination and meaning of Flat rate is Percentage representation of the amount of annual interest on the total loan amount.

The defination and meaning of Flat tax is A tax applied at the same rate to all levels of income. It is often discussed as an alternative to the progressive tax.

The defination and meaning of Flatted factory is An industrial building of more than one storey, usually with two or more goods lifts, and constructed or converted for multiple occupation. The building is subdivided into small, separately occupied units which are used for manufacturing, assembly and associated storage.

The defination and meaning of Flexible installment is Fixing the installment amount to a changeable benchmark.

The defination and meaning of Flipping is When an investor buys an IPO at the offering price and then sells the stock soon after it starts trading on the open market. The underwriters try to discharge flipping by initialing placing stock in the hands of long term investors particularly once that have promised aftermarket orders.

The defination and meaning of Float is The number of shares currently available for trading.

The defination and meaning of Float Quoted Market Value (QMV) is The last price multiplied by the number of outstanding shares.

The defination and meaning of Floater is A type of fixed income instrument.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Floater is Attached to a homeowners policy, a floater insures movable property, covering losses wherever they may occur. Among the items often insured with a floater are expensive jewellery, musical instruments, and expensive apparel. It provides broader coverage than a regular homeowners policy for these items.

The defination and meaning of Floater policy is An inland marine insurance policy that covers property subject to movement from one location to another.

The defination and meaning of Floating profit/loss is Unrecorded gains/losses on the open positions of a certain tool at current rates values.

The defination and meaning of Floating Rate Debt is A bond or other type of debt whose coupon rate changes with market conditions (short-term interest rates).

The defination and meaning of Floating Rate Security is A security whose interest rate or dividend changes with specified market indicators. A floating rate is one that is based on an administered rate, such as a prime rate.

The defination and meaning of Flood is (1) An overflow of inland or tidal waves, (2) unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters, (3) landslides or mudslides, (4) excessive erosion along the shore of a lake or any other body of water, or (5) erosion or undermining caused by a body of water exceeding its anticipated cyclical levels.

The defination and meaning of Floor Broker is An exchange member who is paid a fee for executing orders for Clearing Members or their customers. A Floor Broker executing orders must be licensed by the exchange he is working on.

The defination and meaning of Floor Broker (FB) is An individual who executes orders for the purchase or sale of any commodity futures or options contract on any contract market for any other person.

The defination and meaning of Floor Trader is An exchange member who generally trades only for his/her own account or for an account controlled by him/her. Also referred to as a "local."

The defination and meaning of Floor Trader (FT) is An individual who executes trades for the purchase or sale of any commodity futures or options contract on any contract market for such individual's own account.

The defination and meaning of Floor Traders is Employees of brokerage firms working on exchange trading floors.

The defination and meaning of Floor-of-protection concept is An underlying principle of social insurance specifying that the goal of social insurance is to provide only limited protection, not one?s entire need.

The defination and meaning of Floors is The lower limits on tax benefits and detriments, e.g. in medical expense. A taxpayer must spend more than the floor for a deduction, and only the amount above the floor is deductible.

The defination and meaning of Flow-Through Shares Financing is The dollar value of flow-through shares issued in accordance with a TSX or TSX Venture Exchange approved transaction. The price is determined by the policies of the TSX Company Manual or TSX Venture Corporate Finance Manual; the price is not adjusted for the value of the flow-through tax benefit available to the security holder. It can be an initial public offering (IPO), secondary offering, or private placement.

The defination and meaning of Flying Plateau is A flying plateau is a pattern that forms after a stock has made a strong move up. Strong stocks will consolidate gains sometimes in a flat, sideways pattern in a tight range instead of selling back. This is a very bullish pattern, especially if it is formed on low volume. Picture a 45 degree rise and then a move sideways for several sessions. Strong stocks tend to rest in these patterns, and then start another leg up.

The defination and meaning of FMC is Forward Market Commission is the Regulatory Authority in India for commodity futures trading.

The defination and meaning of Follow on public offering (FPO) is FPO is when an already listed company makes either a fresh issue of securities to the public or an offer for sale to the public, through an offer document. An offer for sale in such scenario is allowed only if it is made to satisfy listing or continuous listing obligations.

The defination and meaning of FOMC is Federal Open Market Committee, the committee that sets money supply targets in the US which tend to be implemented through Fed Fund interest rates etc.

The defination and meaning of Force of attraction is Concept under which a permanent establishment is taxed by the country in which it is located not only on the income and property, but also on all income derived by its foreign head office from source in, and all property owned by the foreign head office situated in, the country where the permanent establishment is located. The OECD model treaty does not allow application of it.

The defination and meaning of Forecast Origin is The most recent historical period for which data is used to build a forecasting model. The next time period is the first forecast period.

The defination and meaning of Foreign exchange is The purchase or sale of a currency against sale or purchase of another.

The defination and meaning of Foreign Exchange (Forex) is Term commonly used when referring to the foreign exchange market.

The defination and meaning of Foreign exchange risk is The risk that the exchange rate on a foreign currency will move against the position held by an investor such that the value of the investment is reduced.

The defination and meaning of Foreign exchange tax is Special tax imposed on transactions involving sales of foreign exchange by domestic banking institutions and authorized exchange brokers.

The defination and meaning of Foreign sales agent is An individual or firm that serves as the foreign representative of a domestic supplier and seeks sales abroad for the supplier.

The defination and meaning of Foreign tax relief is Relief from domestic tax on income from abroad which has already suffered foreign tax. Generally speaking, two approaches are taken to foreign tax relief, i.e. the credit method or the exemption method.

The defination and meaning of Foreign trade zone (also FTZ) is Special commercial and industrial areas in or near ports of entry where foreign and domestic merchandise may be brought in without being subject to payment of customs duties. Merchandise, including raw materials, components, and finished goods, may be stored, sold, exhibited, repacked, assembled, sorted, graded, cleaned or otherwise manipulated prior to re-export or entry into the national customs authority. Duties are imposed on the merchandise (or items manufactured from the merchandise) only when the goods pass from the zone into an area of the country subject to the Customs Authority. Foreign trade zones are also called free trade zones, free zones, free ports or bonded warehouses.

The defination and meaning of Foreign-source income is Generally income realized from countries outside the country of residence of the taxpayer.

The defination and meaning of Forex is Term commonly used when referring to the foreign exchange market.

The defination and meaning of Forex Market is An over-the-counter market where buyers and sellers conduct foreign exchange business by telephone and other means of communication. Also referred to as foreign exchange market.

The defination and meaning of Forfait is In a number of countries tax is sometimes levied on an estimated taxable base (forfait), particularly in respect of the imposition of income tax or turnover tax on small enterprises.

The defination and meaning of Forfaiting is The purchase by the forfaiter of an exporter’s accounts receivable which are based on negotiable instruments such as bills of exchange and promissory notes. In contrast to factoring, forfaiting involves a series of independent, medium to longer term obligations of higher value. Since the forfaiter purchases the bills on a non-recourse basis, they assume both commercial and political risk.

The defination and meaning of Form 5329 is The IRS tax form on which early (premature) withdrawals are reported.

The defination and meaning of Form 8606 is The IRS tax form on which non-deductible IRA contributions are reported.

The defination and meaning of Formation is A recognized, technically significant chart pattern. While every chart pattern is unique, each general type tends to yield similar results.

The defination and meaning of Forward is A transaction that settles at a future date.

The defination and meaning of Forward (Cash) Contract is A cash contract in which a seller agrees to deliver a specific cash commodity to a buyer sometime in the future. Forward contracts, in contrast to futures contracts, are privately negotiated and are not standardized.

The defination and meaning of Forward contract -fixed term is These contracts specify a ‘fixed’ future date at which it is anticipated delivery of the foreign currency will be effected. If delivery is made on the fixed date (expiry of the contract) the contract rate applies. However, delivery may be made at any time during the term of the contract but if prior to the stated due date (i.e. a pre-delivery) the contract rate may be adjusted in accordance with forward margins then applicable.

The defination and meaning of Forward contract -optional term is Where an importer is uncertain of delivery date, they are faced with the possibility of an adjustment of the contract rate against them if they take out a fixed term contract and must deliver some considerable time before expiry  date.To remove this uncertainty, they may take out a contract with a firm rate quoted for delivery at any time within a stated period, e.g. usually 15 30 days.Delivery within the optional period would be effected at the contract rate, while earlier deliveries would necessitate an adjustment to the rate as is the case for pre-deliveries under fixed term contracts.

The defination and meaning of Forward deal is An agreement to buy or sell foreign currency against either New Zealand Dollars or another foreign currency for value on a date more than two business days from date of deal.

The defination and meaning of Forward discount is The term applied to a foreign currency which is less expensive to trade forward than for spot settlement. A forward discount favours the buyer of the foreign currency and is always added to the spot rate e.g. importer.

The defination and meaning of Forward exchange contract (FEC) is An arrangement entered into between customer/bank wherein customer agrees to buy/sell foreign currency from/to bank for delivery by an agreed future date.

The defination and meaning of Forward margin is The premium or discount on forward rates against spot rates.

The defination and meaning of Forward points is The points that are added to or subtracted from the spot rate to calculate the forward rates for a forward foreign exchange transaction. These points are based on the differential between the interest rates of the two currency pairs.

The defination and meaning of Forward premium is The term applied to a foreign currency which is more expensive to trade forward than for spot settlement. A forward premium favours the seller of the foreign currency and is always subtracted from the spot rate e.g.exporter.

The defination and meaning of Forward price is The fixed price at which a specified amount of a commodity is to be delivered on a fixed date in the future

The defination and meaning of Forward rate is The price of a foreign currency which is bought or sold for delivery and payment at a fixed future time, usually 30, 60 or 90 days. Forward transactions enable importers and exporters who will have to make, or will receive, payment in a foreign currency at a future time, to protect themselves against the risk of fluctuations in the spot rate.

The defination and meaning of Forward rates or forward price is The net price resulting from calculating the forward points and subtracting them from the existing spot rate. This is the rate at which a currency can be purchased or sold for delivery in the future.

The defination and meaning of Forward-Rate Agreements (FRAs) is Cash payments are made daily as the spot rate varies above or below an agreed -upon forward rate and can be hedged with Eurodollar futures.

The defination and meaning of Fractal Dimension is From fractal geometry, used to describe the irregular nature of lines, curves, planes or volumes.

The defination and meaning of Fractals is Depiction of mathematical models that may be applied to identify data patterns.

The defination and meaning of Framing or Frame Dependence is The tendency to evaluate current decisions within the framework in which they have been presented. Making decisions based on perceptions of risk/return rather than pure risk and return. The usual example is categorization of where money comes from and what it is "assigned" to instead of recognizing its fungibility. The alternative is to speak of frame independence, wherein behavior is not influenced by how the decision is framed. Examples are loss aversion, hedonic editing, loss of self-control, regret, and money illusion.

The defination and meaning of Fraud is Tax fraud is a form of deliberate evasion of tax which is generally punishable under criminal law. The term includes situations in which deliberately false statements are submitted, fake documents are produced, etc.

The defination and meaning of Free Cash Flow is Operating cash flow minus amounts spent on plants and equipment and minus dividends.

The defination and meaning of Free Credit Period is A free credit period ranges from 20-50 days during which the bank that has issued the card does not charge the card holder any interest. After this period, the payment has to be made on purchases made against the credit card. If full payment for the outstanding amount is not made, then the member loses the privilege of free credit from that date.

The defination and meaning of Free-of-capture-and-seizure (FC&S) clause is A clause in ocean marine insurance that excludes war as a covered peril.

The defination and meaning of Freehold is In general parlance this is used as shorthand for the tenure of an estate in fee simple absolute in possession. Strictly speaking, however, freehold includes fee simple, entailed interests and tenancies for life.

The defination and meaning of Freeze is An interruption in trading on a stock, triggered when an order violates parameters set by TSX.

The defination and meaning of Freight is Money paid for the transportation of goods. Freight insurance is a common coverage in marine insurance, purchased by the owners of transporting vessels.

The defination and meaning of FREIGHTEX is Freightex is an index on NCDEX that represents simple average of the freight rates per tonne across high-density routes for a distance of 1000 kilometers.

The defination and meaning of Frequency is Frequency refers to the given time period on an intraday, daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly or yearly perspective. Typically, choosing a weekly or monthly perspective when looking at several years of data makes it easier to identify long-term trends. Daily charts are useful for active traders and short-term time period charts.The "Daily", "1-Minute", "5-Minute", "15-Minute" and "Hourly" frequency are used for intraday charts and the remaining choices are applicable to end-of-day charts. This term refers to a TSX Group Historical Performance charting feature.

The defination and meaning of Frequency Component is That part of a time series that may be represented as a cycle.

The defination and meaning of Frequency Distribution is A chart showing the number of times (or "frequency") an event occurs for each possible value of the event. The vertical or y-axis of the chart is the frequency axis and the horizontal or x-axis shows the different values the variable being measured can take.

The defination and meaning of Frequency Domain is Variation in a time series is accounted for by cyclical components at different frequencies.

The defination and meaning of Frequency reduction is A method of loss control that lessens the chance that a peril will occur.

The defination and meaning of Frequency Response is The transfer of the frequency of the underlying data, usually prices, to the frequency of its moving average.

The defination and meaning of Friendly fire is A fire confined to the area of a boiler, stove, or other place designed to contain it.

The defination and meaning of Fringe benefits is Benefits supplementing normal wages or salaries. Fringe benefits may be given in the form of a money allowance, e.g. a holiday bonus or in the form of benefits in kind, e.g. free accommodation. Although most countries tax the benefit of employer-provided automobiles and accommodation, the tax treatment of other fringe benefits varies considerably.

The defination and meaning of Frivolous position is A tax position that is knowingly advanced in bad faith and is patently improper.

The defination and meaning of Front Month is The first expiration month in a series of months.

The defination and meaning of Front-End Load is Same as Entry Load.

The defination and meaning of Front-Loaded is Commission and fees taken out of investment capital before the money is put to work.

The defination and meaning of Front-Running is The practice of trading ahead of large orders to take advantage of favorable price movement. Brokers are prohibited from this practice.

The defination and meaning of Frontage(line) is The full length of a plot of land or a building measured alongside the road on to which the plot or building fronts. In the case of contiguous buildings individual frontages are usually measured to the middle of any party wall.

The defination and meaning of Frontier workers is For tax purposes, a frontier worker is a person who commutes across a border (e.g. on a daily basis) between his place of residence and his place of employment.

The defination and meaning of Fronting is A procedure in which a primary insurer acts as the insurer of record by issuing a policy, but then passes the entire risk to a reinsurer in exchange for a commission. Often, the fronting insurer is licensed to do business in a country where the risk is located, but the reinsurer is not. The reinsurer in this scenario is often a captive or an independent insurance company that cannot sell insurance directly in a par-ticular country.

The defination and meaning of Fruit and tree doctrine is A judicial doctrine that an individual who earns income from property of services may not assign such income to another person for tax purposes.

The defination and meaning of Full Carrying Charge Market is A futures market where the price difference between delivery months reflects the total costs of interest, insurance, and storage.

The defination and meaning of Full Membership (CBOT) is A Chicago Board of Trade membership that allows an individual to trade all futures and options contracts listed by the exchange.

The defination and meaning of Full Service Broker is A stockbroker offering investment advice and other services not usually offered by discount brokers.

The defination and meaning of Fully Diluted is Number of shares outstanding including options granted but not yet exercised.

The defination and meaning of Fund Family is A mutual fund company offering many funds for various objectives.

The defination and meaning of Fund Manager is The individual responsible for making portfolio decision for a mutual fund.

The defination and meaning of Fundamental Analysis is Analyzing stocks by looking at earnings, sales, profit margins, etc.

The defination and meaning of Fundamentals is The theory that holds that stock market activity may be predicted by looking at the relative data and statistics of a stock as well as the management of the company in question and its earnings.

The defination and meaning of Funding is The placing of funds in overseas accounts in order to meet the bank’s daily requirements.

The defination and meaning of Funds From Operations (FFO) is Used instead of earnings to evaluate real estate investment trusts (REITs). Depreciation of real estate that was deducted from earnings is added back in to calculate FFO. Any gains or losses from the sale of real estate is also removed.

The defination and meaning of FUTEXAGRI is Futexagri is an equal- weighted index of commodities traded on NCDEX based on the price of near month future contracts.

The defination and meaning of Future Inflation Gauge is A private-sector index (1992=100) that attempts to predict the direction of inflation over the next 6 to 12 months.

The defination and meaning of Future Value is The original amount plus the compound interest thereon, stated as of a specific future date
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Future Volatility is A prediction of what volatility may be like in the future.

The defination and meaning of Futures is A term used to designate all contracts covering the purchase and sale of financial instruments or physical commodities for future delivery on a commodity futures exchange.

The defination and meaning of Futures Commission Merchant is A firm or person engaged in soliciting or accepting and handling orders for the purchase or sale of futures contracts, subject to the rules of a futures exchange and, who, in connection with solicitation or acceptance of orders, accepts any money or securities to margin any resulting trades or contracts. The FCM must be licensed by the CFTC.

The defination and meaning of Futures Commission Merchant (FCM) is An individual or organization that solicits or accepts orders to buy or sell futures contracts or options on futures and accepts money or other assets from customers to support such orders. Also referred to as "commission house" or "wire house.”

The defination and meaning of Futures Contract is A legally binding agreement, made on the trading floor of a futures exchange, to buy or sell a commodity or financial instrument sometime in the future. Futures contracts are standardized according to the quality, quantity, and delivery time and location for each commodity. The only variable is price, which is discovered on an exchange trading floor.

The defination and meaning of Futures Exchange is A central marketplace with established rules and regulations where buyers and sellers meet to trade futures and options on futures contracts.

The defination and meaning of Fuzzy Systems is A problem-solving method that can be applied to neural networks, expert systems and other comput ing methods. Fuzzy systems process inexact information inexactly and describe ambiguity rather than the uncer tainty of an occurrence and are useful in performing control and decision-making tasks. Not Boolean.

The defination and meaning of FX is Foreign Exchange.

The defination and meaning of Gain-on-sale accounting is A company estimates the future profitability of a trade made today and books a profit today based on the present value of those estimated future profits.

The defination and meaning of Gamma is A measurement of how fast delta changes, given a unit change in the underlying futures price.

The defination and meaning of Gann square is The Gann Square is a mathematical system for finding support and resistance based upon a commodity or stock’s extreme low or high price for a given period. Attainment of a particular price level in a square tells you the next probable price peak or valley of future movement. The probable price levels tend to be more reliable if they are extrapolated from Gann Square values along one of the major axes of the Gann Square. The Gann Square is generated from a central value, normally a all-time or cyclical high or low. If a low is used, the numbers are incremented by a constant amount to generate the Gann Square. If a high is used, the numbers are decremented during the square generation.

The defination and meaning of Gap is A day in which the daily range is completely above or below the previous day's daily range.

The defination and meaning of GARP is Growth at a reasonable price. A strategy of buying stocks whose price/earnings ratio is equal to or less than the estimated annual earnings growth rate.

The defination and meaning of GDP is Gross Domestic Product

The defination and meaning of General average clause is A clause in ocean marine insurance that requires ship and freight interests other than the insured to respond to loses suffered by the insured interest when those losses result from voluntary, necessary, and successful sacrifice of the insured?s freight because of shipping peril.

The defination and meaning of General Insurance is Every credit card user is automatically covered for a certain sum of money by the issuing bank. This General Insurance is paid to a card holder's family in the untimely event of death. General Insurance covers vary between bank to bank and also depend on the type of card owned.

The defination and meaning of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) is Accounting rules and procedures established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, an independent self-regulating organization.

The defination and meaning of Generation-skipping tax is Tax imposed to prevent the avoidance of transfer tax (i.e. estate tax and gift tax) over successive generations.

The defination and meaning of Geographic Funds is Mutual funds specializing in a specific geographic area such as Europe.

The defination and meaning of GICS is The Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS) is a consistent set of global economic sector and industry definitions. GICS are used to classify the constituents of many indices worldwide. GICS is a four-level classification system. The four levels are: sector, industry group, industry, and sub-industry. Standard & Poor's and Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI), two providers of global indices, jointly launched GICS in 1999.

The defination and meaning of Gilt Fund is Gilts are securities issued by the central government and are said to carry sovereign or minimal risk.

The defination and meaning of GIM Membership (CBOT) is A Chicago Board of Trade membership that allows an individual to trade all futures contracts listed in the government instrument market category.

The defination and meaning of Give-up is When a broker executes an order for another broker's client and the two brokers split the commission; the client pays nothing extra.

The defination and meaning of Global Card is A Global Card enables you to use your credit card when you are overseas. You can spend in dollars or any other foreign currency and settle the dues in your local currency. Your credit limit is based on the basic travel quota (BTQ) entitlement, and if this more than your assessed credit limit, you could buy traveler's cheques.

The defination and meaning of Global Fund is A mutual fund investing in stocks or bonds through out the world.

The defination and meaning of Global income tax is Income tax that aggregate income from all sources at the individual (or family unit) level. The income is then taxed at a single progressive rate.

The defination and meaning of GLOBEX® is A global after-hours electronic trading system.

The defination and meaning of Glossary summary is This Glossary provides a definition of terms commonly used in this manual and general trade business.

The defination and meaning of GNP is Gross National Product

The defination and meaning of Go Public is The process by which a privately held company first offers shares of stock to the public. This is done via an Initial Public Offering (IPO).

The defination and meaning of Gold Card is Gold, Silver and Classic/Executive are the terms used by card issuing banks to differentiate between the levels of services offered on each. On the premium segment is the gold card which gives higher insurance covers, more privileges and discounts . Here an element of prestige does form an important factor for subscribing to such cards. But it does come at a cost as these cards have the highest fees and service charges associated with them.

The defination and meaning of Good Delivery is The term used to describe a security that is in proper form to transfer title, which means that the registered owner has endorsed it. To settle a sale, the certificate must be surrendered on good delivery by the seller. A certificate that bears a share transfer restriction will not constitute good delivery. The term used to describe a security that is in proper form to transfer title, which means that the registered owner has endorsed it. To settle a sale, the certificate must be surrendered on good delivery by the seller. A certificate that bears a share transfer restriction will not constitute good delivery.

The defination and meaning of Good For the Day is Buy or sell limit order will expire at close of trading if not executed.

The defination and meaning of Good til Canceled is Buy or sell limit order remains active until you cancel it.

The defination and meaning of Good Till Canceled is An order placed with a broker meaning that it is good until either filled or canceled. In practice, this order has to be re-confirmed twice annually.

The defination and meaning of Good Till Cancelled Order (GTC) is A buy or sell order which remains open until it is filled or canceled.

The defination and meaning of Good-Till-Cancelled (GTC) Order is A GTC order will remain in the system until the date that it is filled or until a maximum of 90 calendar days from date of entry, whichever happens first. This type of order is also referred to as an open order. A Participating Organization can cancel a GTC order at any time.

The defination and meaning of Good-Till-Date (GTD) Order is A GTD order will remain in the system until it is either filled or until the date specified, at which time it is automatically cancelled by the system. This is another kind of open order. A Participating Organization can cancel a GTD order at any time.

The defination and meaning of Goods and sales tax vat is Style multi-stage sales tax levied on purchases (and lessees). Sellers (and lessors) are generally responsible for collection.

The defination and meaning of Goodwill is The amount of a company's shareholder's equity that exceeds the value of its hard assets.

The defination and meaning of Grace Period is This provision offers the policy holder additional period of time after the due date, during which the premium can be paid. The policy continues to remain in force during this grace period and the premium continues to be payable.

The defination and meaning of Grace period clause is A clause in life insurance giv-ing the insured an extra 30 days to pay a premium due before lapse takes place.

The defination and meaning of Graded Premium Policy is A type of whole life policy designed for people who want more life coverage than they can currently afford. They pay a lower premium rate that increases gradually over the first three to five years and then remains constant over the life of the policy.

The defination and meaning of Graduated rate is System where the rate of tax increases on marginal amounts as the amount of taxable income rises. Synonym for progressive rate.

The defination and meaning of Grain Terminal is Large grain elevator facility with the capacity to ship grain by rail and/or barge to domestic or foreign markets.

The defination and meaning of Grandfather clause is Clause temporarily preserving legislation which exists at the time a law is modified or a (tax) treaty is concluded (or modified).

The defination and meaning of Greased lease back is The disposal by a freehold or leasehold owner of his interest on a property or leasehold interest where the rent payable is geared to a fixed percentage of some variables, often rack-rental value.

The defination and meaning of Green field site is An area of land, usually in the edge of a town or city or away from substantial urban areas, hitherto undeveloped but for which development is now proposed.

The defination and meaning of Green Shoe is Part of the underwriting agreement which allows, in the event the offering is oversubscribed, the issuer to authorize additional shares (typically 15 percent) to be distributed by the syndicate Also called the overallotment option.

The defination and meaning of Gross Domestic Product is Value of all goods and services produced domestically.

The defination and meaning of Gross income is Gross receipts, whether in the form of cash or property, of the taxpayer received as compensation for independent personal services, and the gross receipts of the taxpayer derived from a trade, business or services, including interest, dividends, royalties, rentals, fees or otherwise.

The defination and meaning of Gross income, taxes on is In some countries income taxes are levied on gross income (usually at low rates) without deduction for expenses.

The defination and meaning of Gross Margin is Gross profit divided by sales.

The defination and meaning of Gross National Product is Gross Domestic Product plus the income accruing to domestic residents as a result of investments abroad less income earned in domestic markets accruing to foreigners abroad.

The defination and meaning of Gross premium is The premium charge for insurance that includes anticipated cost of losses, overhead, and profit.

The defination and meaning of Gross Processing Margin is The difference between the cost of soybeans and the combined sales income of the processed soybean oil and meal.

The defination and meaning of Gross Profit is Profit a company makes on goods and services before considering overhead expenses. Gross profit is sales minus cost of sales.

The defination and meaning of Gross profits tax is Tax imposed usually at low rates on the gross receipts of a business

The defination and meaning of Gross up is Add back the amount of tax which has been paid to the value of property or other income received. The term includes the process by which corporation add credits (e.g. imputation credits or foreign tax credits) received to net income received before calculating their tax liabilities.

The defination and meaning of Group insurance is A single policy covering a group of individuals, usually employees of the same company or members of the same association and their dependents. Coverage occurs under a master policy issued to the employer or association.

The defination and meaning of Group Life Insurance is Life insurance of a group of people under a policy. Usually it does not involve medical examination.

The defination and meaning of Group treatment is Term used to describe the tax treatment where the profits and losses of associated companies may be grouped together and, in effect, be treated as the aggregated profits of a single enterprise (sometimes called a "fiscal unity").

The defination and meaning of Growth Fund is A more speculative mutual fund made up primarily of the growth or performance stocks that are expected to appreciate in price more than the broad market over an extended time period.

The defination and meaning of Growth Plan is A mutual fund whose primary investment objective is long-term growth of capital.

The defination and meaning of Growth Stock is The shares of companies that have enjoyed better-than-average growth over recent years and are expected to continue their climb.

The defination and meaning of Growth Stocks is Companies with consistent annual earnings and sales growth of at least 15%.

The defination and meaning of Guaranteed Addition is Guaranteed additions are calculated at a rate per every thousand of sum assured. They are added to the basic sum assured and are payable on admittance of claim. This benefit is allowed only for each year for which premiums are paid.

The defination and meaning of Guaranteed Insurability (guaranteed issue) is Arrangement, usually provided by rider, whereby additional insurance may be purchased at various times without evidence of insurability.

The defination and meaning of Guaranteed Investment Certificate (GIC) is A deposit instrument most commonly available from trust companies or banks requiring a minimum investment at a predetermined rate of interest for a stated term, such as one or five years. GICs are generally non-redeemable and non-transferable before maturity.

The defination and meaning of Guaranteed Investment Contracts (GICs) is A single lump-sum deposit that earns a guaranteed interest until a known maturity date. GICs are issued by insurance companies.

The defination and meaning of Guaranteed renewable is A policy that cannot be cancelled by the insurer prior to a specified age. Premiums may be increased only for an entire class of insureds.

The defination and meaning of Guaranteed Term is A form of renewable term insurance that remains in force as long as the premiums are paid on time. With guaranteed term insurance, the insurance company cannot terminate the policy during the term.

The defination and meaning of Habitual abode is In the context of the tie-breaker rule of the OECD model tax treaty, habitual abode is one of the criteria used to resolve the problem of dual residence. It refers to the period of time a taxpayer spends in each country.

The defination and meaning of Hacker insurance is A coverage that protects businesses engaged in electronic commerce from losses caused by hackers.

The defination and meaning of Hallmark is Hallmark is a mark or stamp on a bullion item which identifies the producer.

The defination and meaning of Halted Issue is A temporary stoppage of trading of the listed securities of an issuer, which may be imposed by the Exchange, its agent (Market Regulation Services Inc. (RS)), or voluntarily requested by the issuer. Usually an issuer's listed securities are halted pending a public announcement of material information about the issuer, but the Exchange or RS may also impose a halt if the issuer is not in compliance with Exchange requirements or if the Exchange determines that it is in the public interest to do so.

The defination and meaning of Hard market is A seller?s market in which insurance is expensive and in short supply.

The defination and meaning of Hard underwriting is Hard underwriting is when an underwriter agrees to buy his commitment at its earliest stage. The underwriter guarantees a fixed amount to the issuer from the issue. Thus, in case the shares are not subscribed by investors, the issue is devolved on underwriters and they have to bring in the amount by subscribing to the shares. The underwriter bears a risk which is much higher in soft underwriting.

The defination and meaning of Hardship clause is Discretionary power of the tax authorities to mitigate any harsh results of the tax law.

The defination and meaning of Hazards is Conditions that introduce or increase the probability of loss stemming from the existence of a given peril.

The defination and meaning of Head & Shoulders Pattern is This is a reversal signature pattern. It can be either negative (typical head and shoulders), or positive (inverted head and shoulders). A head and shoulders pattern is one of the more common and reliable patterns. It is comprised of a rally which ends a fairly extensive advance. It is followed by a reaction on less volume. This is the left shoulder. The head is comprised of a rally up on high volume exceeding the price of the previous rally. And the head is comprised of a reaction down to the previous bottom on light volume. The right shoulder is comprised of a rally up which fails to exceed the height of the head. It is then followed by a reaction down. If the right shoulder does not reach the height of the left shoulder, this indicates that the fall could be even more severe. This last reaction down should break a horizontal line drawn along the bottoms of the previous lows from the left shoulder and head. This is the point in which the major decline begins. The major difference between a head and shoulder top and bottom is that the bottom should have a large burst of activity on the breakout.

The defination and meaning of Head and Shoulders Top is A pattern characterized by a series of three peaks, the first and third being lower than the middle. Volume, heavy on the first peak, declines on the next two. Completion is marked by the breaking of the "neckline" (an extension of the line connecting the troughs between the three peaks) accompanied by heavy volume. An inverse head and shoulders is the same pattern upside down and volume increases through the pattern.

The defination and meaning of Head office expenses is Where an enterprise with its head office in one country operates through a branch or other permanent establishment in another country, some expenses incurred by the head office, e.g. for general management and administrative expenses or the cost of specific services provided to the permanent establishment, may be deducted in computing the taxable profits of the permanent establishment.

The defination and meaning of Hedge is A transaction that reduces the risk on an existing investment position.

The defination and meaning of Hedge Fund is A fund that may employ a variety of techniques to enhance returns.

The defination and meaning of Hedged margin is The guarantee (expressed in monetary terms), which is required by the dealer to maintain an open locked position or locked position that the client intends to open. Each tool has its own margin.

The defination and meaning of Hedger is An individual or company owning or planning to own a cash commodity–corn, soybeans, wheat, U.S. Treasury bonds, notes, bills, etc.–and concerned that the cost of the commodity may change before either buying or selling it in the cash market. A hedger achieves protection against changing cash prices by purchasing or selling futures contracts of the same or similar commodity and later offsetting that position by selling or purchasing futures contracts of the same quantity and type as the initial transaction.

The defination and meaning of Hedging is The practice of offsetting the price risk inherent in any cash market position by taking an equal but opposite position in the futures market. Hedgers use the futures markets to protect their business from adverse price changes. See Selling (Short) Hedge and Purchasing (Long) Hedge.

The defination and meaning of Herrick Payoff Index is This is a commodity trading tool, useful for the early spotting of changes in price trend direction. The Payoff Index is best used to distinguish trends that are destined to continue from those that will most likely be short-lived. The Payoff Index is a commodity trading tool that is useful in the early identification of changes in the direction of price trends. The Payoff Index frequently helps distinguish between a rally in a trend that is destined to continue and a significant trend change that will provide a worthwhile trading opportunity. The Payoff Index tends to give coincident signals within a day or two before a significant change in price trend. This advance action is accomplished through use of trading volume and contract open interest to modify the price action. Analysts have observed that volume trends often change before a price-trend change. There are also generally accepted relationships between the price trend and the trend of open interest.

The defination and meaning of Hi-tech building is (high technology building) Primarily a modern industrial building which is particularly suited to the flexible uses and space needs of business organisations engaged in modern technologies. Such activities usually require more office or laboratory space than a traditional factory and also more sophisticated and adaptable installations for services and communications.

The defination and meaning of Hidden tax is Indirect tax paid by the consumer without his knowledge.

The defination and meaning of High is The highest price of the day for a particular futures contract.

The defination and meaning of High point loading is A concentration of abnormally heavy floor-loading at one point or more. Particular places in a building or other structure where extra support may be required.

The defination and meaning of High Street is High street retail as a term is used for the primary business street of cities, which is usually a focal point for retailers. Also known as Main Street or Front Street in some countries.
property, high street

The defination and meaning of High-Ticking is To pay the offered price.

The defination and meaning of High-Yield Bond is A bond which pays a high yield due to significant credit risk.
Fixed Income, Bonds

The defination and meaning of Historic Volatility is How much contract price has fluctuated over a period of time in the past; usually calculated by taking a standard deviation of price changes over a time period.

The defination and meaning of Historical Data is A series of past daily, weekly or monthly market prices (open, high, low, close, volume, open inter est).

The defination and meaning of Hog/Corn Ratio is The relationship of feeding costs to the dollar value of hogs. It is measured by dividing the price of hogs ($/hundredweight) by the price of corn ($/bushel). When corn prices are high relative to pork prices, fewer units of corn equal the dollar value of 100 pounds of pork. Conversely, when corn prices are low in relation to pork prices, more units of corn are required to equal the value of 100 pounds of pork. See Feed Ratio.

The defination and meaning of Holder is The party who purchased an option. Initial Performance Bond The funds required when a futures position (or a short options on futures position) is opened. Sometimes referred to as Initial Margin)

The defination and meaning of Holder in due course is A holder who takes a bill, complete and regular on the face of it, under the following conditions:
• that they became the holder of it before it was overdue, and without notice that it has been previously dishonoured, if such was the case, and
• that they took the bill in good faith and for value, and that at the time the bill was negotiated to them they had no notice of any defect in the title of the person who negotiated it.
Until the contrary is proved, every holder is deemed to be a holder in due course. This applies to all holders except the original payee as it has been held that they cannot be holder in due course. The rights of the holder in due course are not affected when the acceptor or other party has been induced to sign the bill by fraud.

The defination and meaning of Holding Company is A company that owns enough shares of another company to secure voting control.

The defination and meaning of Holding Period is Length of time that an individual holds a security

The defination and meaning of Holdings is This is a fund's most recently reported top securities (excluding cash and cash equivalents for all but short-term bond funds). The securities are ranked by the percentage of the portfolio's net assets they occupy. With this information, investors can more clearly identify what drives the fund's performance.

The defination and meaning of Home Equity is Your home equity is the value of your home less all the debts you might have on the home. Your debts would include your mortgage, your home equity loan, and your home equity line of credit. When you retire, your home equity can become an important financial asset, especially if you are willing to sell your home and buy a less expensive place to live.

The defination and meaning of Homeowners insurance policy is The typical home-owners insurance policy covers the house, the garage and other structures on the property, as well as personal possessions inside the house such as furniture, appliances and clothing, against a wide variety of perils including windstorms, fire and theft. The extent of the perils covered depends on the type of policy. An all-risk policy offers the broadest coverage. This covers all perils except those specifically excluded in the policy.

The defination and meaning of Hook Day is A trading day in which the open is above/below the previous day's high/low and the close is below/above the previous day's close with narrow range.

The defination and meaning of Horizontal equity is Doctrine which holds that similarly situated taxpayers should receive similar tax treatment, e.g. taxpayers who earn the same amount of income or capital should be accorded equal treatment.

The defination and meaning of Horizontal Spread is The purchase of either a call or put option and the simultaneous sale of the same type of option with typically the same strike price but with a different expiration month.  Also referred to as a calendar spread.

The defination and meaning of Hospice is A health care organization that provides humane, dignified care for dying patients.

The defination and meaning of Hospital insurance is An insurance contract designed to pay hospital room and board, laboratory fees, nursing care, use of the operating room, and medicines and similar expenses.

The defination and meaning of Hostile fire is A fire that occurs outside of its normal confines.

The defination and meaning of Household Income is While evaluating applications for joint cards, banks take into account household income or the total income of all earning members in a household.

The defination and meaning of Hull insurance is Property insurance policy covering a sea-going vessel.

The defination and meaning of Human life value is The sum of money that when paid in instalments of both principal and interest over the individual?s remaining working life, will produce the same income the person would have earned, minus taxes and personal expenses.

The defination and meaning of HVAC is Refers to the heating, ventilation, air conditioning system installed in a building to regulate temperature. This includes air conditioning plants, chillers and ducting systems, which ensure the uniform transfer of the cold or hot air, as the case may be throughout the building.

The defination and meaning of Hybrid accounting methods is Term which refers to the situation where a taxpayer used a combination of accounting methods (such as accruals basis accounting or cash basis accounting) for different items of income.

The defination and meaning of Hypothecation is Pledging of assets as collateral.

The defination and meaning of ICAR is INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH.

The defination and meaning of IDEM Membership (CBOT) is A Chicago Board of Trade membership of trading privileges for futures contracts in the index, debt, and energy market categories (gold, municipal bond index, 30-day fed funds, and stock index futures).

The defination and meaning of Identity theft insurance is Coverage for expenses incurred as the result of an identity theft. Can include costs for notarizing fraud affidavits and certified mail, lost income from time taken off from work to meet with law enforcement personnel or credit agencies, fees for reapplying for loans and attorney?s fees to defend against lawsuits and remove criminal or civil judgments.

The defination and meaning of If, As & When Issued Trading is Occurs when new securities are posted for trading, and trading takes place before the closing (formal original issuance) of the prospectus. Also known as the "grey market". The term is used only for listing of new securities, either on a listing of a new issuer, a supplemental listing, or an additional listing of existing listed securities. Settlement occurs on the closing of the prospectus. The time from posting for trading to closing is generally within a week.

The defination and meaning of IFFCO is Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited.

The defination and meaning of Immediate annuity is An annuity in which benefits begin soon after the annuity is purchased.

The defination and meaning of Implied Alpha is The excess return expected from a stock to justify its current weighing in the portfolio.

The defination and meaning of Implied Volatility is A measurement of the volatility of a stock. Current price rather than historical price is used. Generally, if the price of an option rises without a corresponding rise in the underlying equity, implied volatility is considered to have risen.

The defination and meaning of Implied warranties is Warranties not stated in a con-tract but assumed by the parties to be true.

The defination and meaning of Import duty is See: Duty

The defination and meaning of Impost is The term "impost" means tax and refers particularly to a duty on imported goods and to clarification (by customs) of (imported) goods in order to assess the proper (import) taxes.

The defination and meaning of Improvements is Generally, physical changes which enhance the capital value of land or buildings. These may include additional buildings, extensions to existing buildings, installation of new services, eg. central heating and air conditioning and infrastructure works. On the other hand, mere replacement by a modern equivalent if something worn out would normally be regarded as a repair rather than an improvement. The distinction has legal and taxation consequences.

The defination and meaning of Improving the Market is An order that either raises the bid price or lowers the offering price is said to be improving the market. The market improves because the spread between the bid and offer decreases.

The defination and meaning of Impulse is A sharply defined change in a series of input data being studied, such as market prices or volume.

The defination and meaning of Impulse Wave is A wave or cycle of waves that carries the current trend further in the same direction.

The defination and meaning of Imputation system is System under which at least part of the tax paid by a company on its profits is credited against the tax liability of shareholders in receipt of distributions paid by the company out of those profits.

The defination and meaning of Imputed acts is Acts committed by one person but for which responsibility has been transferred or?imputed? to another.

The defination and meaning of Imputed income is The economic benefit a taxpayer obtains through performance of self-provided services or through the use of self-owned property.

The defination and meaning of Imputed interest is Implied interest. In a mortgage that states an insufficient interest rate, tax law will impute a higher rate and a lower principal, which will increase taxes on the receipt of payment.

The defination and meaning of In bond is As applied to air freight coming into a country the term ‘in bond’ designates a procedure under which customs clearance of cargo is postponed until the cargo reaches an inland customs point rather than subjecting the cargo to clearance procedures at congested gateway cities.

The defination and meaning of In Force is Insurance on which the premiums are being paid or have been fully paid.

The defination and meaning of In Play is A stock that is the focus of a public bidding contest, as in a takeover or bear raid.

The defination and meaning of In-the-money is A call option is in-the-money if the strike price is less than the market price of the underlying security. A put option is in-the-money if the strike price is greater than the market price of the underlying security.

The defination and meaning of In-the-Money Option is An option having intrinsic value. A call option is in-the-money if its strike price is below the current price of the underlying futures contract. A put option is in the money if its strike price is above the current price of the underlying futures contract. See Intrinsic Value.

The defination and meaning of Inboard watercraft is A type of watercraft whose motor is a permanent part of it.

The defination and meaning of Inception Date is The fund inception date gives the date on which the fund commenced operations.

The defination and meaning of Incidence of tax is The person who bears the tax burden in economic sense, which could be different from the person paying the tax.

The defination and meaning of Income Deposit Security (IDS) is An exchange-traded, fixed income-like instrument consisting of a subordinated debt security and a share of common stock packaged together to form a tax-efficient delivery mechanism to distribute an issuer's free cash flow to its investors. Investors are paid dividends from the common share component and interest from the subordinated debt.

The defination and meaning of Income Dividends is Payments to mutual fund shareholders consisting of dividends, interest and short-term capital gains earned on the fund's portfolio securities after deduction of operating expenses.

The defination and meaning of Income From Continuing Operations is See Operating Income.

The defination and meaning of Income Fund is A mutual fund that primarily seeks current income rather than growth of capital. It will tend to invest in stocks and bonds that normally pay high dividends and interest.

The defination and meaning of Income splitting is A number of arrangements, the essential feature of which is that income, which would have been taxed at a higher rate in the hands of the person who derived it, is taxed in the hands of another person at a lower rate.

The defination and meaning of Income Statement is A record of a company's sales and expenses over a particular year or quarter.

The defination and meaning of Income Stock is A security with a solid record of dividend payments and which offers a dividend yield higher than the average common stock.

The defination and meaning of Income subject to tax is All sources of income liable to tax without taking account of tax allowances.

The defination and meaning of Income tax credit is See: Credit, tax

The defination and meaning of Income tax Liability is It refers to the direct tax the policyholder has to pay against his income during a particular financial year under the Income Tax Act of 1962.

The defination and meaning of Income Trust is Also called income funds. Income trusts are trusts structured to own debt and equity of an underlying entity, which carries on an active business, or has royalty revenues generated by the assets of an active business. By owning securities or assets of an underlying business, an income trust is structured to distribute cash flows, typically on a monthly basis, from those businesses to unit holders in a tax-efficient manner. The trust structure is typically utilized by mature, stable, sustainable, cash-generating businesses that require a limited amount of maintenance capital expenditures. An income trust is an exchange-traded equity investment that is similar to a common share. There are four categories of income trusts: business trusts; real estate investment trusts (REITs); energy trusts; and power, pipeline, and utility trusts.

The defination and meaning of Incontestability clause is A life insurance clause that prevents the insurer, after two years, from denying liability under the policy for misrepresentations or con-cealments by the insured.

The defination and meaning of Increasing term is Term life insurance in which the face amount of the policy increases periodically on a predetermined basis.

The defination and meaning of Increasing term insurance is Term life insurance in which the death benefit increases periodically over the policy's term, usually purchased as a cost of living rider to a whole life policy.

The defination and meaning of Incurred but not reported losses (IBNR) is Losses that are not filed with the insurer or reinsurer until years after the policy is sold. Some liability claims may be filed long after the event that caused the injury to occur. Asbestosrelated diseases, for example, do not show up until decades after the exposure. IBNR also refers to estimates made about claims already reported but where the full extent of the injury is not yet known, such as a workers compensation claim where the degree to which workrelated injuries prevents a worker from earning what he or she earned before the injury unfolds over time. Insurance companies regu-larly adjust reserves for such losses as new information becomes available.

The defination and meaning of Incurred losses is Losses occurring within a fixed period, whether or not adjusted or paid during the same period.

The defination and meaning of Indemnify is To restore insureds to the situations that existed prior to a loss.

The defination and meaning of Indemnity is A form of contract when a party (who thereby becomes primarily liable) undertakes to compensate another for loss they may suffer as a result of a transaction with a third party.

The defination and meaning of Indenture is a deed between two or more parties, each party having his own copy. Originally copies were all included in a single document from which each part was torn or cut along a wavy (intended) line.

The defination and meaning of Indenture is The legal agreement between the firm issuing the bond and the bondholders, providing the specific terms of the loan agreement.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Independent adjuster is An individual or firm employed by an insurer to settle loss claims.

The defination and meaning of Independent agent is Agent who is self-employed, is paid on commission, and represents several insurance companies.

The defination and meaning of Index is A composite representing the value of a group of stocks.

The defination and meaning of Index Fund is A fund that specializes in the purchase of securities that match or represent a specific index. For example, BSE 30 index is a fund that seeks to mimic the returns represented by the BSE Sensex.

The defination and meaning of Index Option is An option whose underlying security is an index. An example would be the S&P 100 (OEX). A trader can buy index options and bet on the direction of the OEX.

The defination and meaning of Index Participation Unit (IPU) is See Exchange-Traded Fund (ETF).

The defination and meaning of Indian Stamp Act, 1899 is A legal statute, which provides for the payment of stamp duty in case of all real estate transactions to duty to the local government. The value of the stamp duty depends on the rental payable and the lease term or the sale value as the case may be. This duty is paid by purchasing non judicial Indian Stamp Paper, on which the lease/sale agreements are documented.

The defination and meaning of Indicated Annual Dividend/Distribution is For an issue with a committed dividend/distribution policy, the indicated annual dividend/distribution (IAD) equals the most recent dividend/distribution multiplied by the payment frequency. For example, if an issuer pays $0.04 quarterly, then the indicated rate is $0.04 X 4 or $0.16. In the case of issuers with no committed policy, the IAD is obtained by adding the dividend/distribution amounts paid in the last 12-month period. Indicated annual dividend/distribution is also referred to as indicated rate.

The defination and meaning of Indicative Calculated Closing Price (ICCP) is A feature of Market On Close (MOC), a TSX electronic call market facility, the Indicative Calculated Closing Price (ICCP) provides a preliminary indication of what the calculated closing price for a MOC security would be assuming the regular trading session had ended at the time of calculation. The ICCP is calculated without reference to volatility parameters. The ICCP for each MOC security will be broadcast to the trading community at 3:50 PM ET on each trading day, 10 minutes prior to the actual Market On Close execution. A key objective of broadcasting the ICCP is to provide market participants with an early indication of potentially large price movements at the close. The ICCP for all MOC securities will be included in the MOC Imbalance Report that is made available on tmxmoney.com.

The defination and meaning of Indicators is A subset of market measuring tools (indexes) used specifically for monitoring and forecasting, e.g. Confidence Index or Specialists' Short Sales Ratio. Indexes frequently use benchmarks or thresholds as signals of possible impending change in market outlook.

The defination and meaning of Indirect loss is A loss that occurs indirectly as a con-sequence of a given peril.

The defination and meaning of Indirect tax is Tax imposed on certain transactions, goods or events. Examples include VAT, sales tax, excise duties, stamp duty, services tax, registration duty and transaction tax

The defination and meaning of Indirect tax is Indirect tax is imposed on goods and services. For example, GST.

The defination and meaning of Indirect tax credit is See: Credit, underlying (indirect) tax

The defination and meaning of Indirect-charge method is A method of charging for intra-group services based upon cost allocation and apportionment methods.

The defination and meaning of Individual Retirement Account (IRA) is A tax-deferred retirement plan that an individual with earned income can open. Some individuals may deduct their IRA contributions from their taxable income.

The defination and meaning of Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) is If you're employed, you can take advantage of an Individual Retirement Account (IRA). That much is simple. From there, it gets a bit more complicated, but we'll guide you on issues and opportunities such as tax-deferral, potential tax deductions, Roths, IRA rollovers and conversions.

The defination and meaning of Inductive Logic is The progress from statements describing particular events to a general statement.

The defination and meaning of Industry Group is companies in related businesses.

The defination and meaning of Inefficient Markets is Driven by frame dependence and heuristic bias, when market prices stray from fundamental values.

The defination and meaning of Inflation is Increasing prices over time. The inflation rate is usually measured per year. Small inflation rates can have a major impact on your purchasing power over many years.
Examples: If the rate of inflation is currently 3%, then a basket of goods which cost $100 this year will cost $103 next year.

The defination and meaning of Inflation is A general increase in prices of goods and services.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Inflation guard clause is A provision added to a homeowners insurance policy that automatically adjusts the coverage limit on the dwelling each time the policy is renewed to reflect current construction costs.

The defination and meaning of Inflation rates is Refers to the rise in prices of all commodities (or a specific set of commodities) over a specific period of time.

The defination and meaning of Inflation Risk is The risk that the purchasing power of your investment will be eroded by inflation. Because more conservative investments generally provide the lowest returns over time, they are generally more exposed to possible inflation risk.

The defination and meaning of Information return is Declaration made by a person who has economic information about a potential taxpayer, regardless of whether that person is liable for withholding tax.

The defination and meaning of Inherent nature of the goods is A cause of loss that stems from the product itself. A loss due to this cause releases the carrier from liability.

The defination and meaning of Initial Balance is The first or first two half-hour trading periods in the CBOT Market Profile during which prices tend to converge; the initial auction of the trading day.

The defination and meaning of Initial Margin is The amount a futures market participant must deposit into his margin account at the time he places an order to buy or sell a futures contract.

The defination and meaning of Initial margin requirement is The minimum portion of a new security purchase that an investor must pay for in cash.

The defination and meaning of Initial Public Offering is When a stock is officially available for the public to buy.

The defination and meaning of Initial Public Offering (IPO) is A company's first issue of shares to the general public.

The defination and meaning of Initial Purchase is The smallest investment amount accepted for establishing a new account. The minimum initial purchase notifies the investor of monetary restrictions for becoming a shareholder. Generally speaking, institutional funds have the highest minimum initial purchase amounts. For those investors with only a small amount to invest, checking the fund's minimum initial purchase should be one of the first criteria you use when selecting an appropriate mutual fund.

The defination and meaning of Inland marine insurance is This broad type of cover-age was developed for shipments that do not involve ocean transport. Covers articles in transit by all forms of land and air transportation as well as bridges, tun-nels and other means of transportation and communi-cation. Floaters that cover expensive personal items such as fine art and jewellery are included in this category.

The defination and meaning of Inland transit policy is A basis contract covering domestic shipments shipped primarily by land trans-portation systems.

The defination and meaning of Input tax is Term used in connection with VAT to denote the tax embodied in purchases made by a trader or entrepreneur who will usually be able to obtain a credit for the tax that his suppliers have paid on the goods supplied to him which form his "inputs".

The defination and meaning of Inside Day is A day in which the daily price range is completely within the previous day's daily price range.

The defination and meaning of Inside Information is Non-public information pertaining to the business affairs of a corporation that could affect the company's share price should the information be made public.

The defination and meaning of Insider is All directors and senior officers of a company, and those who are presumed to have access to inside information concerning the company. An insider is also anyone owning more than 10% of the voting shares of a company.

The defination and meaning of Insider Ownership is number of shares owned or controlled by insiders.

The defination and meaning of Insider Trading is This is trading in the shares of an entity by its directors and officers. These individuals are required to disclose their trades before they happen, and several services provide this information to investors. It is useful, though not an absolute indicator as to a stock?s potential movement, to know if insiders are selling or buying shares of the company they run.

The defination and meaning of Insiders is With respect to a corporation or other entity, these are the people who have access to inside information about a company or entity that is material to the stock price. For corporations, they are typically the directors and senior officers of a corporation. A person or entity that owns greater than ten percent (10%) someone of the voting shares of a corporation is also considered an insider.

The defination and meaning of Insolvency is Inability to pay debts when due

The defination and meaning of Instant execution is The provision of quotes to the trade system without a request. Thus a client may proceed with desired transactions.

The defination and meaning of Institutional investors is These are generally taken to include banks, pension funds, insurance companies, unit trusts and investment trusts, which are together commonly referred to in the investment field as the "institutions".

The defination and meaning of Institutional Ownership is Shares owned by pension funds, mutual funds, banks, etc.

The defination and meaning of Instrument is A formal legal document in writing, e.g. a bill of exchange.

The defination and meaning of Insurability is All conditions pertaining to individuals that affect their health, susceptibility to injury and life expectancy; an individuals risk profile.

The defination and meaning of Insurable interest is A legal principle in which an insured must demonstrate a personal loss; prevents the insurance from becoming a gambling contract.

The defination and meaning of Insurable risk is Risks for which it is relatively easy to get insurance and that meet certain criteria. These include being definable, accidental in nature, and part of a group of similar risks large enough to make losses predictable. The insurance company also must be able to come up with a reasonable price for the insurance.

The defination and meaning of Insurable value is In business income coverage, the amount obtained by deducting variable costs and expenses (those that may be discontinued in the event of a shutdown) from the total sales.

The defination and meaning of Insurance is Insurance is a policy a person buys and upon that person's death, the family will be able to get a certain sum of money.

The defination and meaning of Insurance plan term is The period at the end of which an insurance plan matures is called the insurance plan term. The policyholder gets the sum assured at the lapse of this period or at the time of his death whichever occurs earlier.

The defination and meaning of Insurance plan value is The amount for which the policyholder wishes to insure himself through an insurance plan is the plan value.

The defination and meaning of Insurance Policy is The printed document issued to the policyholder by the company stating the terms of the insurance contract.

The defination and meaning of Insurance proceeds is The lump sum that a policyholder or the beneficiary designated by him will receive in the event of his death within the term of the plan or when the plan matures.

The defination and meaning of Insurance rate is The price of insurance, expressed as a price per unit of coverage.

The defination and meaning of Insured is Insured is the party who is being insured in life insurance. It is this person on whose death the insurance company would pay out a death benefit to a designated beneficiary.

The defination and meaning of Insured pension plans is Employee benefit plans managed by an insurance company.

The defination and meaning of Insurer is Party that provides insurance coverage, typically through a contract of insurance.

The defination and meaning of Insuring agreement is The part of an insurance contract that states what the insurer agrees to do and the conditions under which it so agrees.

The defination and meaning of Intangibles is Soft assets such as patents, trademarks, etc.

The defination and meaning of Integrated risk management is Approach for managing both pure and speculative risks together; another name for enterprise risk management.

The defination and meaning of Intercommodity Spread is The purchase of a given delivery month of one futures market and the simultaneous sale of the same delivery month of a different, but related, futures market.

The defination and meaning of Interdelivery Spread is The amount a futures market participant must deposit into his margin account at the time he places an order to buy or sell a futures contract.

The defination and meaning of Interest is The charge due to the bank that issued the card either when cash is withdrawn from an ATM or on the balance carried forward after the free credit period.

The defination and meaning of Interest Coverage is A measure of a company’s ability to pay interest on its debts (operating income divided by interest expenses).

The defination and meaning of Interest payout is A process whereby the interest earned on the deposit is paid out to the investor at specified time intervals. This can be a quarter, six months or a year, depending upon the details specified in the deposit. The investor gets the cash in this situation.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Interest rate is This is the amount calculated as a specified percentage of the amount lent that is paid to the lender or the investor. This represents the rate of return for the person or entity lending the money and is a key figure that is considered in selecting a fixed deposit.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Interest Rate is The monthly effective rate paid (or received if you are a creditor) on borrowed money. Expressed as a percentage of the sum borrowed.

The defination and meaning of Interest rate Carry is The income or cost associated with keeping a foreign exchange position overnight. This is derived when the currency pairs in the position have different interest rates for the same period of time.

The defination and meaning of Interest Rate Sensitivity is Interest-rate sensitivity, measured by the average effective duration the longer a fund's duration, the more sensitive the fund is to shifts in interest rates. The relationship between funds with different durations is straightforward: A fund with a duration of 10 years is twice as volatile as a fund with a five-year duration. Duration also gives an indication of how a fund's NAV will change as interest rates change. A fund with a five-year duration would be expected to lose 5% from its NAV if interest rates rose by one percentage point or gain 5% if interest rates fell by one percentage point.

The defination and meaning of Interest Rate Swaps is An arrangement that requires both sides of the transaction to make payments to each other based on two different interest rates. The most commonly traded requires one side to pay a fixed rate and the other to pay a floating rate.

The defination and meaning of Intermarket Analysis is Observing the price movement of one market for the purpose of evaluating a different market.

The defination and meaning of Intermarket Spread is The sale of a given delivery month of a futures contract on one exchange and the simultaneous purchase of the same delivery month and futures contract on another exchange.

The defination and meaning of Intermarket Surveillance Group (ISG) is An international committee comprised of members from 31 exchanges around the world, including every major stock exchange. Membership in the ISG allows all members to share surveillance and investigative information to ensure that each regulator has access to the necessary information to effectively regulate its marketplace. The ISG promotes effective market surveillance among international exchanges and RS involvement helps ensure they are continually in touch with other regulators and part of the development of international best practices.

The defination and meaning of Intermediate Bond Fund is A mutual fund that invests in bonds with maturities within the 5 to 10-year range.

The defination and meaning of Intermediate Term is Refers to a period of time often measured in terms of weeks or months.

The defination and meaning of Internal rate of return (IRR) is The rate of interest (expressed as a percentage) at which all-future cash flows (positive and negative) must be discounted in order that the net present value of those cash flows should be equal to zero. It is found by trial and error by applying present values at different rates of interest in turn to the net cash flow. It is something called the discounted cash flow rate of return.

The defination and meaning of International Card is An International Card entitles you to use your card overseas. You spend in the currency of the location that you are in and settle the dues in Indian rupees. Expenditure can be incurred up to your pre-fixed credit limit or up to the Basic Travel Quota (BTQ) guidelines that are set by the RBI.

The defination and meaning of International double taxation is See: Double taxation, domestic and international

The defination and meaning of International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) is The international standard that is used to uniquely identify securities. It consists of a two-character alphabetic country code specified in ISO 6166, followed by a nine-character alphanumeric security identifier (assigned by a national security numbering agency), and then an ISIN check-digit.

The defination and meaning of International taxation is Traditionally, international taxation refers to treaty provisions relieving international double taxation. In broader terms, in includes domestic legislation covering foreign income of residents (worldwide income) and domestic income of non-residents.

The defination and meaning of Internet insurer is An insurer that sells exclusively via the Internet.

The defination and meaning of Internet liability insurance is Coverage designed to protect businesses from liabilities that arise from the conducting of business over the Internet, including copyright infringement, defamation, and violation of privacy.

The defination and meaning of Intestacy laws is Laws governing the distribution of an estate not disposed of by a will.

The defination and meaning of Intestate is Without a valid will.

The defination and meaning of Intraday is Stock trading tracked in periods shorter than one day.

The defination and meaning of Intrinsic Value is The amount by which an option is in-the-money. See In-the-Money Option.

The defination and meaning of Intrinsic value is Intrinsic value is the actual value of a coin's metal content.

The defination and meaning of Introducing Broker is A person or organization that solicits or accepts orders to buy or sell futures contracts or commodity options but does not accept money or other assets from customers to support such orders.

The defination and meaning of Introductory/Intro Rate is A special rate charged by a bank for the initial launch period of a card. It is normally lower and with specific intention to entice new users and existing card users to switch between cards.

The defination and meaning of Inventory is Raw materials, work in process, and finished goods that haven’t been shipped to customers.

The defination and meaning of Inverse Floater is A type of fixed income instrument.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Inverted Market is A futures market in which the relationship between two delivery months of the same commodity is abnormal.

The defination and meaning of Investment is The purchase of stocks, bonds, mutual fund shares, real property, an annuity, collectibles, or other assets, with the expectation of obtaining income or capital gains-or both-in the future.

The defination and meaning of Investment Advisor is A person employed by an investment dealer who provides investment advice to clients and executes trades on their behalf in securities and other investment products.

The defination and meaning of Investment allowance is Allowance with respect to a qualifying depreciable asset. It adds a certain percentage of the asset's initial cost to the full depreciation write-off and is usually given in the year of acquisition or as soon as possible thereafter.

The defination and meaning of Investment Bank is An organization, usually a stock brokerage firm, involved in taking a new company public (IPO), consulting on mergers and acquisitions, handling corporate borrowing, etc.

The defination and meaning of Investment Capital is Initial investment capital necessary for starting a business. Investment capital usually consists of inventory, equipment, pre-opening expenses and leaseholds.

The defination and meaning of Investment Clubs is Small, private organizations in which a group of investors, usually novices, pool their time and resources to learn more than they could on their own about various forms of investments and then invest their own money as a group.

The defination and meaning of Investment Counsellor is A specialist in the investment industry paid by fee to provide advice and research to investors with large accounts.

The defination and meaning of Investment Dealer is Securities firms that employ investment advisors to work with retail and institutional clients. Investment dealers have underwriting, trading and research departments.

The defination and meaning of Investment deduction is See: Investment allowance

The defination and meaning of Investment Fund is A closed-end fund that offers investors the ability to buy a security that represents a portfolio of investments with a specific investment strategy. These products use funds raised through a public offering to invest in a portfolio of securities, which are actively managed to create income streams for investors, typically through a combination of dividends, capital gains, interest payments, and in some cases, income from derivative investment strategies. These funds are not directly related to an operating business. Some examples are: funds of income funds, senior loan funds, mortgage-backed security funds, and commodity funds.

The defination and meaning of Investment incentives is Financial and tax incentives used to attract local or foreign investment capital to certain activities or particular areas in a country.

The defination and meaning of Investment income is Income generated by the invest-ment of assets. Insurers have two sources of income, underwriting (premiums less claims and expenses) and investment income. The latter can offset underwriting operations, which are frequently unprofitable.

The defination and meaning of Investment method is Method used in connection with VAT where an immediate credit is granted against tax for that part of expenditure incurred during the year for acquisition of business assets (such as plant and machinery by a manufacturer) which related to the tax element in the price of such assets.

The defination and meaning of Investment Objective is The financial goal (long-term growth, current income, etc.) that an investor or a mutual fund pursues.

The defination and meaning of Investment Portfolio Definition is An investment portfolio is a collection of assets owned by an individual or by an institution. 
An investor's portfolio can include real estate and so-called "hard" assets, such as gold bars. But most investment portfolios, particularly portfolios that are assembled to pay for a retirement, are made up mainly of securities, such as stocks, bonds, mutual funds, money market funds and exchange traded funds.
The best retirement portfolios diversify the mix of investments -- which can range from the caution of US Treasury bonds to the risky zip of small-company stocks -- in an effort to dampen market losses and maximize potential gains.

The defination and meaning of Investment reserve is This system permits eligible taxpayers to set aside part of their profits as a reserve for future investment and deduct from their income the amount of the annual contribution to the reserve.

The defination and meaning of Investment yield is The annual percentage return which is considered to be for a specific valuation in an investment being expressed as the ratio of annual net income (actual or estimated) to the capital value. It is therefore a measure of an investor's opinion about the prospects and risks attached to that investment. The better the prospects and lower the risks, the lower the expected yield and thus the greater the capital value. The required yield from an investment is estimated in the light of such factors as:

The defination and meaning of Investor Relations is A corporate function, combining finance, marketing and communications, to provide investors with accurate information about a company's performance and prospects.

The defination and meaning of Invisible Supply is Uncounted stocks of a commodity in the hands of wholesalers, manufacturers, and producers that cannot be identified accurately; stocks outside commercial channels but theoretically available to the market.

The defination and meaning of Invoice basis is Method of applying VAT to the price at which the goods or service are invoiced, with a deduction for the tax (if any) charged at previous stages.

The defination and meaning of Invoice company is Term used in the context of transfer pricing to refer to a company established in a low-tax or no-tax jurisdiction for the purpose of shifting profits to that jurisdiction.

The defination and meaning of Involuntary coverage is Government insurance required to be purchased by certain groups and under certain conditions.

The defination and meaning of IPO is Initial Public Offer (IPO) is a source of collecting money from the public for the first time in the market to fund for its projects. In return, the company gives the share to the investors in the company

The defination and meaning of IPO Financing is The dollar value of initial public offering (IPO) securities issued in accordance with a TSX or TSX Venture Exchange approved transaction. It is the stated prospectus price multiplied by "the number of securities issued under the IPO plus the over allotment".

The defination and meaning of IRA is Individual Retirement Account. An employer's retirement plan that, as specified by tax law, allows employees to elect to have their federal taxable income be deducted and set aside for retirement.

The defination and meaning of IRA Rollover is The transfer of money from another qualified retirement plan, such as a 401(k) or regular IRA, into another IRA. The IRA receiving the money can be a new IRA or an existing one. Done properly, no withholding is taken out of the former account and no taxes are due the following April. However, any rollover will trigger a reportable item, meaning you will have to indicate you did a rollover on your tax return.

The defination and meaning of IRA Transfer is The movement of IRA funds directly from one IRA provider to another without the IRA owner taking receipt of the funds. This transaction is sometimes referred to as a Trustee to Trustee transfer.

The defination and meaning of IRDA is The acronym for the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India, it is the apex body overseeing the insurance business in India. It protects the interests of the policyholders, regulates, promotes and ensures orderly growth of the insurance in India.

The defination and meaning of IRR is Internal Rate of Return or the IRR is a measure of cost of capital and the earnings from the cash flows to be made on the loan disbursed.

The defination and meaning of Irrevocable beneficiary is A beneficiary designation that may not be changed without the written consent of the named beneficiary.

The defination and meaning of ISIN is ISIN is the Commodity Identification Number by which each commodity along with its specific details is uniquely represented

The defination and meaning of Island Reversal is A trading range where there is an exhaustion gap up, then prices trade in a narrow range for a few days, then there is a breakaway gap down. This leaves a sort of island of prices in the middle. The reverse happens at an island bottom reversal.

The defination and meaning of ISO 9000 is International production quality standards established by ISO (International Standards Organisation). Certification that an exporter meets ISO 9000 manufacturing standards, for example, may be a minimum requirement for competing in certain markets or for certain tenders.

The defination and meaning of Issue is Any of a company's securities or the act of distributing the securities. Issued shares refer to the portion of a company's shares that have been issued for sale. A company does not have to issue the total number of its authorized shares.

The defination and meaning of Issue Price is The price at which a new security will be distributed to the public prior to the new issue trading on the secondary market. Also commonly referred to as offering price.

The defination and meaning of Issue Status is The trading status of a class or series of an issuer's listed securities, such that a class or series of listed securities of an issuer may be halted, suspended, or delisted from trading.

The defination and meaning of Issued and Outstanding Securities is Commonly refers to the situation where the number of issued securities equals the number of outstanding securities. However, under certain corporate statutes in Canada, an issuer may have issued securities and then repurchased those securities without cancelling them. In that case, the securities are issued but are not outstanding. As a result, the number of issued securities does not equal the number of outstanding securities.

The defination and meaning of Issuer is An entity, like a company, municipality or government, that has the power to issue and distribute securities.

The defination and meaning of Issuer Status is The trading status of a listed or formerly listed issuer. Issuer status types include: delisted, listed, suspended, and trading.

The defination and meaning of Issuing (or opening) bank is The buyer’s bank which establishes a documentary credit at the request of the buyer, in favour of the beneficiary (seller/exporter). It is also called the buyer’s bank or opening bank.

The defination and meaning of Issuing Bank is The issuing bank, or issuer, as the term goes, refers to the banks that issue cards.

The defination and meaning of January Effect is The tendency for securities prices to recover in January after tax-related selling is completed before the year-end.

The defination and meaning of Jeopardy assessment is Tax assessment made where there is some danger of tax being lost.

The defination and meaning of Jitney Order is The execution and clearing of orders by one member of a stock exchange for the account of another member. For example, investment dealer A is a small firm whose volume of business is not sufficient to maintain a trader on the exchange. Instead, investment dealer A gives its orders to investment dealer B, a larger organization which is a member of the exchange, for execution. Investment dealer A pays a reduced percentage of the normal commission.

The defination and meaning of Jobbers is Members of a stock exchange who stand ready to buy and sell shares in which they specialize are called jobbers.

The defination and meaning of Joining Fee is As the term suggests, the Joining Fee is what you pay when your application form for a card is accepted. It varies from bank to bank and on the type of card applied for. Typically joining fees range from Rs. 100 to Rs. 1,000. Now a lot of banks waive this and have started offering life-time free cards.

The defination and meaning of Joint Account is A bank account that is owned together (jointly) by two or more people. The depositors can decide whether transactions require the signatures of all parties or whether one party can take actions on his/her own.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Joint agent is One or two or more agents jointly instructed by a principal to act on his behalf. In the case of estate agents this is normally on the basis that if any one of the agents effect the sale, letting or other joint agent(s) will share the remuneration in agreed proportions. None of these agents would be entitled to a commission if the transaction is concluded as a result of someone else's introduction.

The defination and meaning of Joint and several liability is The legal doctrine that allows a plaintiff to collect in full from one negligent party in an accident where there are two or more negligent parties.

The defination and meaning of Joint and Survivor Payment Option (or Annuity) is One of several choices available to an annuitant for payment. If the joint and survivor option is selected, payments will continue past the owner's death should his/her designated survivor beneficiary survive him/her. For example, if a joint and survivor annuity is selected, payments continue after the annuitant passes away if the designated survivor beneficiary is still alive. Depending on the type of joint and survivor option available and selected, the survivor payment may be the same or less as the payment made while both were alive. Compare to Life Annuity and Term Certain.

The defination and meaning of Joint and x percent survivor annuity is A joint and survivor annuity in which the payment after the first annuitant dies equals X percent of the benefit while both were alive.

The defination and meaning of Joint Applications is Applications can be filled in single or in joint names (more than one person). In joint application, all payments will be made in favor of the first applicant.

The defination and meaning of Joint sole agent is One of two or more agents jointly instructed as the only agent entitled to represent the principal. It is customary for the joint agents to share any commission earned on an agreed basis, irrespective of which agent effects the sale or letting.

The defination and meaning of Junior Corporation is A young company in the early stages of operations and growth.

The defination and meaning of Junk Bond is A speculative bond rated BB or below by Standard & Poor's Corp. and Ba or below by Moody's Investor Service. See Bond Rating. "Junk bonds" are generally issued by corporations of questionable financial strength or without proven track records. They tend to be more volatile and higher yielding than bonds with superior quality ratings. "Junk bond funds" emphasize diversified investments in these low-rated, high-yielding debt issues.

The defination and meaning of Junk bond is A bond which pays a high yield due to significant credit risk.
Fixed Income, Bonds

The defination and meaning of Junk Bonds is Corporate bonds with poor credit ratings.

The defination and meaning of Juridical double taxation is See: Double taxation, economic and juridical

The defination and meaning of Jurisdiction is The power, right, or authority to interpret and apply tax laws or decisions.

The defination and meaning of Karat is Karat is a unit to measure of the purity of a precious metal. For example, Pure gold is 24 karat.

The defination and meaning of Key employee is An employee whose services would be difficult to replace if the employee were to die or become disabled.

The defination and meaning of Key person insurance is Insurance on the life or health of a key individual whose services are essential to the continuing success of a business and whose death or disability could cause the firm a substantial financial loss.

The defination and meaning of Kidnap/ransom insurance is Coverage up to specific limits for the cost of ransom or extortion payments and related expenses. Often bought by international corporations to cover employees. Most policies have large deductibles and may exclude certain geographic areas. Some policies require that the policyholder not reveal the coverage?s existence.

The defination and meaning of Kilo bar is Kilo bar as the name suggests is a bar weighing one kilogram or approximately 32.1507 troy ounces.

The defination and meaning of Kiosk is A small enclosed retailed outlet, normally without toilet facilities and in the retail area, frequently located in a public concourse or other place where it may remain open only during peak times and be closed securely when there are no customers. Kiosks are now sometimes included in managed shopping schemes.

The defination and meaning of Know Your Client guidelines is The process that has to be undertaken by banks and other financial institutions to ensure that proper check is made of the investors transacting with them. This is done in order to ensure that the client is known to the financial entity and there is no money laundering taking place.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Koala is Koala is Australian platinum coin casted in 1987.

The defination and meaning of Krugerrand is Krugerrand is South African gold coin.

The defination and meaning of Lack of privity is A defence in product liability cases, alleging that no liability exists because no contractual relationship exists between the manufacturer or ven-dor and the injured party.

The defination and meaning of Lag is The number of data points that a filter, such as a moving average, follows or trails the input price data.

The defination and meaning of Land assembly is The process of forming a single site from a number of lands, usually for eventual development or redevelopment. This will include acquisition of individual interest and the eventual development or redevelopment, removal or discharge of any restrictive covenants or other encumbrances and obtaining physical possession, when required, from occupiers.

The defination and meaning of Landlord is The owner of an interest in land who, in consideration of a rent or other payment (eg. a premium), grants the right to exclusive possession of the whole or part of their land to another person for a specific or determinable period by way of a lease or tenancy.

The defination and meaning of Lapse is Termination of a policy upon the policy owner's failure to pay the premium within the grace period. If there are nonforfeiture values, the policy lapses but may remain effective reduced paid-up insurance.

The defination and meaning of Larceny is Wrongful or fraudulent taking and carrying away by any person of the personal property of another.

The defination and meaning of Large-Cap is Company with market capitalization greater than $8 billion.

The defination and meaning of Large-loss principle is A rule for buying insurance such that serious loss exposures receive priority over less serious loss exposures.

The defination and meaning of Last Birth Day (l.b.d) is Age at last birthday.

The defination and meaning of Last clear chance rule is In a case of contributory negligence, the negligent plaintiff may have a cause of action against the defendant if the defendant had a last clear chance to avoid the accident but failed to do so.

The defination and meaning of Last Sale Price is For a Market On Close (MOC)-eligible security, the last sale price equals the calculated closing price. If the MOC closing price acceptance parameters are exceeded, it equals the last board lot sale price of the security on the exchange in the regular trading session.For any other listed security, the last sale price equals the last board lot sale price of the security on the exchange, in the regular trading session.

The defination and meaning of Last Trading Day is According to the Chicago Board of Trade rules, the final day when trading may occur in a given futures or option contract month. Futures contracts outstanding at the end of the last trading day must be settled by delivery of the underlying commodity or securities or by agreement for monetary settlement (in some cases by exchange for physicals - EFPs).

The defination and meaning of Late Payment Fee is Means exactly what it says - the fee charge to cardholder whose monthly payment has not been received by the due date. In the case of charge cards, this fee is stated in terms of a flat per-transaction or in the case of a credit card, it can be a percentage of the amount due.

The defination and meaning of Latest Quarterly Earnings is The percentage change from the latest earnings earnings reported compared with the same quarter a year earlier.

The defination and meaning of Law of large numbers is The theory of probability on which the business of insurance is based. Simply put, this mathematical premise says that the larger the group of units insured, such as sportutility vehicles, the more accurate the predictions of loss will be.

The defination and meaning of Law of Series is A succession of random events, such as flipping a coin.

The defination and meaning of Lead Underwriter is The underwriter who, among other things, is in charge of organizing the syndicate, distributing member participation shares and making stabilizing transactions. The lead underwriter's name appears on the left side of a prospectus cover.

The defination and meaning of Leading Indicators is Market indicators that signal the state of the economy for the coming months. Some of the leading indicators include average manufacturing workweek, initial claims for unemployment insurance, orders for consumer goods and material, percentage of companies reporting slower deliveries, change in manufacturers' unfilled orders for durable goods, plant and equipment orders, new building permits, index of consumer expectations, change in material prices, prices of stocks, and change in money supply.

The defination and meaning of LEAP is A long-term put or call option (as long as three years).

The defination and meaning of LEAPS is Long-Term Equity Anticipation Securities are long-term stock or index options. LEAPS are available in two types, calls and puts. They have expiration dates up to three years in the future.

The defination and meaning of LEAPS (Long-Term Equity Appreciation Participation Securities) is LEAPS are stock options that have expiration dates that extend beyond one year.

The defination and meaning of Lease agreement is An agreement, usually written, between the lessor and the lessee, which allows for the conveyance of property to the tenant under a contract, and confers usage and control rights to the tenant for the duration of lease. Apart from financial terms and conditions, several clauses describing the other binding terms and conditions of the agreement are also documented.

The defination and meaning of Leasehold is An interest in real property created by an agreement (a lease) that gives the lessee (the tenant) the right of enjoyment and use of the property or a period of time.

The defination and meaning of Least Squares Method is A technique of fitting a curve close to some given points that minimizes the sum of the squares of the deviations of the given points from the curve.

The defination and meaning of Leg is One side of a spread.

The defination and meaning of Leg Out is In rolling forward in futures, a method that would result in liquidating a position.

The defination and meaning of Legal entity is Generally, corporations, joint-stock companies and limited liability companies are regarded for tax purposes as having an existence separate from that of their shareholders. Conversely, for tax purposes a partnership is often not regarded as a separate legal entity, its profits being taxed in the hands of the individual partners. What constitutes a legal entity for tax purposes may or may not coincide with what constitutes a legal entity for general law purposes.

The defination and meaning of Legal injury is Wrongful violation of a person?s rights.

The defination and meaning of Legal reserve is Under the civil law of some countries corporations are required to maintain a legal reserve for all needs which may arise in the course of the business. Tax law does not allow a deduction for such a reserve.

The defination and meaning of Legend is Legend is the inscription on a coin.

The defination and meaning of Lender is A person or an entity that gives money to someone else for a specific period of time. The money will be returned and for the effort of lending there is an earning in the form of interest.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Level Load is Commission (load) that does not vary depending on how long the investor held the investment.

The defination and meaning of Level playing field is This term denotes to reduce, by means of tax policy, the differences in the taxation of internationally mobile entities or transactions allowing countries to compete fairly on non-tax factors.

The defination and meaning of Leverage is The compounding of risks.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Leveraged Buy Out is Take over of a public corporation using borrowed funds.

The defination and meaning of Liabilities is The debts and obligations of a company or an individual. Current liabilities are debts due and payable within one year. Long-term liabilities are those payable after one year. Liabilities are found on a company's balance sheet or an individual's net worth statement.

The defination and meaning of Liability is In banking, a liability is a commitment expressed in monetary terms. It can be direct or contingent.
Direct liability is that which sooner or later must be repaid, e.g. negotiation, trade finance loan, surrendered bill of lading, special documentary credit establishment. Contingent liability is one which may or may not eventuate, e.g. import documentary credit established which is never drawn under.

The defination and meaning of Liability insurance is Insurance for what the policy-holder is legally obligated to pay because of bodily injury or property damage caused to another person.

The defination and meaning of Libel is Written, printed, or pictorial material that damages a person?s reputation by defaming or ridiculing the person.

The defination and meaning of LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate) is Average weighted interest rate on interbank loans provided by banks, that participate in the London interbank market and offer funds in different currencies for different time periods (from 1 day to 1 year). The British Banking Association has been putting rates on record since 1985.

The defination and meaning of License is The lawful grant of a right to do something which would otherwise be illegal or wrongful. It may be gratuitous, contractual or coupled with an interest in land. The grantor of license is the licensor and the grantee is the licensee. A gratuitous ("mere" or "bare") license can always be revoked (ie. cancelled), but revocability of a contractual license depends on the terms of the contract. A license coupled with an interest in land may be irrevocable and unlike the other two categories, may be binding on successors in title of the licensor.

The defination and meaning of Licensing is A contractual arrangement in which the licenser’s patents, trademarks, service marks, copyrights, or know-how may be sold or otherwise made available to a licensee for compensation negotiated in advance between the parties. Such compensation may consist of a lump sum royalty, a “running’ royalty (based on volume of production), or a combination of both. Licensing enables a firm to enter a foreign market quickly and poses fewer risks than setting up a foreign manufacturing facility. Furthermore, it allows parties to overcome tariff and non-tariff barriers of trade.

The defination and meaning of Life Annuity is An annuity that makes regular (e.g.monthly, quarterly, etc.) income payments for the life of a person (the annuitant). The annuitant cannot outlive the payments. Upon his/her death, however, all income payments cease and there are no beneficiary benefit.

The defination and meaning of Life Annuity Payment Option is One of several choices available to an annuitant for payment. If this life annuity option is selected, payments continue for the length of the owner’s life. However, upon his or her death, no payments are available to any survivor. Consequently, a life annuity typically has the highest monthly payout for amount invested. Compare to joint and survivor and Term Certain options.

The defination and meaning of Life Assured is Life assured refers to the person whose life is being insured.

The defination and meaning of Life Cycle Fund is A life cycle fund is a mutual fund which automatically reduces its risk over time to coincide with the age of the owner. As the investor gets closer to retirement, an appropriately selected life cycle fund will become more conservative, selling stocks and purchasing more fixed income investments, in recognition that a reduced risk profile is appropriate for someone nearing retirement. Very similar to a target date fund.

The defination and meaning of Life Expectancy is Life expectancy is the amount of time one is expected to live. Shockingly, one person can have multiple life expectancies. The IRS has a life expectancy based on your current age. Yet your doctor might have quite another based on your current health, smoking habits, stress level, and genetics.

The defination and meaning of Life Expectancy Tables is Mortality tables that are used to calculate life expectancy figures.

The defination and meaning of Life insurance is See Ordinary life insurance; Term insurance; Whole life insurance

The defination and meaning of Lifetime highs & lows is In a futures table, the highest and lowest price during the lifetime of a particular contract. Indicates how much volatility there has been in the trading of a particular contract for a particular commodity — an indication of risk and reward.

The defination and meaning of Lifetime maximum is A limit that applies to all benefits payable under an insurance plan. The maximum can often be restored over time, eventually allowing an insured to collect more than the stated maximum.

The defination and meaning of Lighters is Barges used for unloading sea vessels when normal harbour facilities are non-existent or unavailable.

The defination and meaning of Limit Move is A change in price that exceeds the limits set by the exchange on which the contract is traded.

The defination and meaning of Limit Order is An order to buy or sell stock at a specified price. The order can be executed only at the specified price or better. A limit order sets the maximum price the client is willing to pay as a buyer, and the minimum price they are willing to accept as a seller.

The defination and meaning of Limit Up, Limit Down is Commodity exchange restrictions on the maximum upward or downward movements permit ted in the price for a commodity during any trading session day.

The defination and meaning of Limitation on benefits provision is Tax treaty provisions designed to restrict treaty-shopping opportunities by limiting treaty benefits to persons who meet one of several enumerated tests, which may require minimum level qualifications, e.g. local ownership.

The defination and meaning of Limited Pay Policy is A type of whole life insurance designed to let the policy holder pay higher premiums over a specific period such as 10 or 20 years and then not pay any premium for the rest of his or her life.

The defination and meaning of Limits is See Position Limit, Price Limit, Variable Limit.

The defination and meaning of Line Formation is A sideways chart pattern that unfolds within a very narrow price range. The price swings are so limited, a line can often be drawn across the chart covering the prices, hence the name. The pattern indicates a tight balance between supply and demand and thus the direction of the eventual breakout is made more meaningful as an indicator of the direction of the next move.

The defination and meaning of Linkage is The ability to buy (sell) contracts on one exchange (such as the Chicago Mercantile Exchange) and later sell (buy) them on another exchange (such as the Singapore International Monetary Exchange).

The defination and meaning of Liquid is A characteristic of a security or commodity market with enough units outstanding to allow large transactions without a substantial change in price. Institutional investors are inclined to seek out liquid investments so that their trading activity will not influence the market price.

The defination and meaning of Liquid Fund is A liquid fund is the same as a money market fund, but avoids a lock-in period.

The defination and meaning of Liquidate is To sell or purchase futures contracts of the same delivery month purchased (or sold) during an earlier transaction or making (or taking) delivery of the cash commodity represented by the futures contract. See Offset.

The defination and meaning of Liquidating Order is An order to close out an existing open futures or options contract. A liquidating order involves the sale of a contract that has been purchased or purchase of a contract that has been sold.

The defination and meaning of Liquidation is The closing of an existing position through the execution of an offsetting transaction.

The defination and meaning of Liquidity is a measure of the number of shares, or dollar value of shares traded daily. Mutual funds and other institutional buyers prefer high liquidity stocks so they can easily move in and out of positions.

The defination and meaning of Liquidity is Refers to an investor's ability to convert an asset into cash. The faster the conversion the more liquid the asset. Illiquidity is a risk in that an investor might not be able to convert the asset to cash when most needed.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Liquidity Data Bank® is A computerized profile of CBOT market activity, used by technical traders to analyze price trends and develop trading strategies. There is a specialized display of daily volume data and time distribution of prices for every commodity traded on the Chicago Board of Trade.

The defination and meaning of LISP is A programming language based on predicate logic and is the one most commonly used in artificial intelligence applications.

The defination and meaning of Listed Stock is Shares of an issuer that are traded on a stock exchange. Issuers pay fees to the exchange to be listed and must abide by the rules and regulations set out by the exchange to maintain listing privileges.

The defination and meaning of Listing is The process of making the securities officially quoted on the notified stock exchange for the trade.

The defination and meaning of Listing Application is The document that an issuer completes and submits to an exchange when it applies to list its shares on the exchange. The issuer must disclose its activities, plans, management and finances in the application.

The defination and meaning of Lloyd's of London is A marketplace where underwrit-ing syndicates, or mini-insurers, gather to sell insurance policies and reinsurance. Each syndicate is managed by an underwriter who decides whether or not to accept the risk. The Lloyd?s market is a major player in the international reinsurance market as well as a primary market for marine insurance and large risks. Originally, Lloyd?s was a London coffee house in the 1600s patronized by shipowners who insured each other?s hulls and cargoes. As Lloyd?s developed, wealthy individuals, called?Names,? placed their personal assets behind insurance risks as a business ven-ture. Increasingly since the 1990s, most of the capital comes from corporations.

The defination and meaning of Load is Commissions an investor pays to a mutual fund on entry (buying units) and exit (selling the units)

The defination and meaning of Load bearing is The capacity of an element in a building structure to support a weight in addition to its own, whether vertically or laterally. Thus a load bearing wall is one which supports part of the structure in addition to its own weight.

The defination and meaning of Loading is The overhead or administrative expenses of an insurer that is included in the cost of a policy.

The defination and meaning of Loan Program is A federal program in which the government lends money at preannounced rates to farmers and allows them to use the crops they plant for the upcoming crop year as collateral. Default on these loans is the primary method by which the government acquires stock of agricultural commodities.

The defination and meaning of Loan Rate is The amount lent per unit of a commodity to farmers.

The defination and meaning of Local is The trader in a pit of a commodity exchange who buys and sells for his or her account.

The defination and meaning of Local tax is In countries where there is a central or federal government and separate levels of government at state, provincial, county or city levels, taxes levied at the lower levels of government are commonly referred to as "local" taxes.

The defination and meaning of Lock-in is Lock-in indicates a freeze on the shares. SEBI (DIP) Guidelines have stipulated Lock-in requirements on shares of promoters mainly to ensure that the promoters, who control the company, shall continue to hold some minimum percentage in the company after the public issue. The requirements are detailed in Chapter IV of DIP guidelines.

The defination and meaning of Lock-In Period is Period during which an investor is restricted from selling a particular investment.

The defination and meaning of Locked Limit is A market that, if not restricted, would seek price equilibrium outside the limit but, instead, moves to the limit and ceases to trade.

The defination and meaning of Locked positions is Positions opened for buying and selling one and the same tool with the same volume.

The defination and meaning of Lockup Period is Time after IPO, typically 180 days, when insiders are prohibited from selling their shares.

The defination and meaning of Long (overbought) position is Excess of purchases over sales or of foreign currency liabilities over assets.

The defination and meaning of Long Hedge (futures) is The purchase of a futures contract in anticipation of an actual purchase in the cash market. Used by processors or exporters as protection against and advance in the cash price

The defination and meaning of Long Position is An investors position where the number of contracts bought exceeds the number of contracts sold. He is a net holder.

The defination and meaning of Long Tail is A 'long tail' means the low for the day was well below the close. In other words, the market opened, sellers took over and pushed the index down, but then buyers came back in and ran the index back up to where it opened. The buyers had the last say on the day and showed a lot of strength moving up. That tends to show a reversal in the buying patterns and foretells a further rise from here for the short term.

The defination and meaning of Long-Term Bond Fund is A mutual fund that invests in bonds that mature in more than 10 years.

The defination and meaning of Long-Term Capital Gain is A profit on the sale of a mutual fund share that has been held for more than one year.

The defination and meaning of Long-term care is Care and service provided to the elderly to assist them with day-to-day living.

The defination and meaning of Long-term care insurance is Coverage that, under specified conditions, provides skilled nursing, inter-mediate care, or custodial care for a patient (generally over age 65) in a nursing facility or his or her residence following an injury.

The defination and meaning of Long-term care rider is An accelerated death benefit specifically for insured?s long-term care needs.

The defination and meaning of Long-Term Investments is Balance sheet item reflecting investments in other companies, etc.

The defination and meaning of Lookback Interval is The number of periods of historical data used for observation and calculation.

The defination and meaning of Looking through is Term typically used when disregarding the separate legal identity, for example, a company, in order to charge tax on a shareholder in respect of his share of the company profits.

The defination and meaning of Loophole is Opportunities available in tax law to minimize a taxpayer's tax burdens.

The defination and meaning of Loss is A reduction in the quality or value of a property, or a legal liability.

The defination and meaning of Loss adjustment expenses is The sum insurers pay for investigating and settling insurance claims, including the cost of defending a lawsuit in court.

The defination and meaning of Loss control is Actions taken to reduce the fre-quency and/or severity of losses.

The defination and meaning of Loss costs is The portion of an insurance rate used to cover claims and the costs of adjusting claims. Insurance companies typically determine their rates by estimating their future loss costs and adding a provision for expenses, profit, and contingencies.

The defination and meaning of Loss exposure is A potential loss that may be associ-ated with a specific type of risk.

The defination and meaning of Loss exposure checklist is A risk identification tool used by businesses and individuals that lists many different potential losses. The user can determine which of the potential losses is relevant.

The defination and meaning of Loss of use is A provision in homeowners and renters insurance policies that reimburses policyholders for any extra living expenses due to having to live else-where while their home is being restored following a disaster.

The defination and meaning of Loss ratio is Percentage of each premium rupee an insurer spends on claims.

The defination and meaning of Loss relief is Most income tax laws provide some form of relief for losses incurred, either by carrying over the loss to offset it against profits in previous years (carry-back) or in future years (carry-forward) or by setting off the loss against other income of the same taxpayer in the year in which the loss was incurred.

The defination and meaning of Loss reserves is The company?s best estimate of what it will pay for claims, which is periodically readjusted. They represent a liability on the insurer?s balance sheet

The defination and meaning of Loss settlement clause is A provision that helps determine if items will be valued at actual cash value or at replacement cost after a loss.

The defination and meaning of Lost Card Liability is If you lose your card or if it gets stolen, you must report the incident to the bank immediately in order to deactivate your card and prevent fraud. Liability fee on a lost or stolen card is payable on the expenses incurred during the period between the loss and your informing the bank.

The defination and meaning of Lot is Exchange transactions unit.

The defination and meaning of Lottery tax is Tax on the sale of lots or on the receipt of prizes after the drawing of lots.

The defination and meaning of Low is The lowest price of the day for a particular contract.

The defination and meaning of Low Pass Frequency Filter is A data smoother or filter that lets pass low frequency trend sinusoids and rejects high frequency noise.

The defination and meaning of Low price is The minimal price of a certain security for a certain period of time.

The defination and meaning of Low-Ticking is To sell at the bid price.

The defination and meaning of Loyalty Additions is Incentives given by an insurer as an additional benefit to the insured for keeping the policy in full force throughout the term of the contract.Rates are determined by the insurer on the basis of its performance.

The defination and meaning of Lump Sum Distribution is Payment to a recipient of all funds accumulated in a 401(k) account or other tax-qualified plan within one taxable year.

The defination and meaning of Lump-sum deductions is Deduction, often from income, for the computation of taxable income, which does not reflect the factual situation.

The defination and meaning of Lump-sum exempt amounts is Fixed sum of income, net worth, etc., below which no tax is due.

The defination and meaning of Lump-sum rates is In specific cases, income tax (and other taxes) may be levied at a fixed rate instead of the rates usually applicable.

The defination and meaning of Lump-sum taxation is The tax laws of some countries allow the tax authorities to levy a fixed amount of taxes on income in certain circumstances which deviates from the normal method of applying a rate to income to ascertain taxes payable.

The defination and meaning of Luxury taxes is Indirect ad valorem tax imposed on supplies of specific non-essential and normally expensive commodities that are arbitrarily considered (e.g. toiletries, cosmetics, jewellery, pearls and precious stones and metals, etc.)

The defination and meaning of MACD is Moving Average Convergence/Divergence. The crossing of two exponentially smoothed moving averages. They oscillate above and below an equilibrium line.The Moving Average Convergence/Divergence indicator (MACD) is calculated by subtracting the value of a 0.075 (26-period) exponential moving average from a 0.15 (12-period) exponential moving average. A 9-period dotted exponential moving average (the “signal line”) is automatically displayed on top of the MACD indicator line. The basic MACD trading rule is to sell when the MACD falls below its 9-period signal line. Similarly, a buy signal occurs when the MACD rises above its signal line. A variation of the MACD can be created by plotting the following formula:

macd( ) – mov(macd( ), 9, E).

Then change the indicator line style to a histogram, and plot a 9-period dotted moving average of the indicator. In a system test of this indicator, sell arrows are drawn when the histogram peaked and turned down and buy arrows are drawn when the histogram formed a trough and turned up.

The MACD is used to determine overbought or oversold conditions in the market. Written for stocks and stock indices, MACD can be used for commodities as well. The MACD line is the difference between the long and short exponential moving averages of the chosen item. The signal line is an exponential moving average of the MACD line. Signals are generated by the relationship of the two lines. As with RSI and Stochastics, divergences between the MACD and prices may indicate an upcoming trend reversal.

The defination and meaning of Maintenance is A set minimum margin (per outstanding futures contract) that a customer must maintain in his margin account. Typically 75% of initial margin.

The defination and meaning of Maintenance Performance Bond (Previously referred to a Maintenance Margin) is A sum, usually smaller than, but part of, the initial performance bond, which must be maintained on deposit in the customer's account at all times. If a customer's equity in any futures position drops to, or under, the maintenance performance bond level, a "performance bond call" is issued for the amount of money required to restore the customer's equity in the account to the initial margin level.

The defination and meaning of Major Auction is The overall trend of the market such as might be observed on a bar chart.

The defination and meaning of Malpractice is Improper or immoral conduct of a professional in the performance of his duties, done either intentionally or through carelessness or ignorance; commonly applied to accountants, tax preparers, and lawyers to denote negligent or unskilful performance of duties where professional skills are obligatory.

The defination and meaning of Malpractice insurance is Professional liability cover-age for physicians, lawyers, and other specialists against suits alleging negligence or errors and omissions that have harmed clients.

The defination and meaning of Managed Futures is Represents an industry comprised of professional money mangers known as commodity trading advisors who manage client assets on a discretionary basis, using global futures markets as an investment medium.

The defination and meaning of Management expenses is Generally the expenses of management are deductible in arriving at the taxable profits of an enterprise carrying on a trade. In the case of a group of companies it may be important to decide how far the general expenses of management of the group should be charged out to and recovered from the members of the group.

The defination and meaning of Management Fee is The amount a mutual fund pays to its investment advisor for services rendered, including management of the fund's portfolio. In general, this fee ranges from .5% to 1% of the fund's asset value.

The defination and meaning of Mandelbrot Set is Complex but structured pattern produced by an equation in which the result is fed back into the equation repeatedly; self-similarity.

The defination and meaning of Manifestation doctrine is A liability limit that provides coverage when a claimant?s disease or injury is discovered.

The defination and meaning of Mapping is A function, or relation between values.

The defination and meaning of Margin is Margin allows investors to buy securities using borrowed money from a broker. The investor is charged interest for the loan. Margin requirements differ depending upon the type of transaction being made or the type of stock being purchased, e.g., selling puts, buying stock, credit spreads. Options are not generally marginable.

The defination and meaning of Margin account is An account that allows leverage buying on credit and borrowing on currencies already in the account. Buying on credit and borrowing are subject to standards established by the firm carrying the account. Interest is charged on any borrowed funds and only for the period of time that the loan is outstanding.

The defination and meaning of Margin Call is This is a demand for a client to deposit money or securities into a margin account. This can occur when a purchase is made in excess of the value of the margin account or when the value of an account decreases because the value of the securities held decreases regardless of whether a new purchase is made or not.

The defination and meaning of Margin or Forward margin is The premium or discount for the term and currency involved in a forward exchange contract.

The defination and meaning of Margin Requirement for Options is The amount an uncovered (naked) option writer is required to deposit and maintain to cover a position. The margin requirement is calculated daily.

The defination and meaning of Margin Traiding is trading with the use of leverage. For instance, having a deposit of 100$ and 1:3 leverage allows a client to make deals with the total price of 400$.

The defination and meaning of Margin/spread is The differences between the buying and selling rates of a foreign exchange quotation or between the borrowing and lending rates in deposits. The expression is also used with respect to offshore loans as being the difference between cost of borrowing and return from lending.

The defination and meaning of Marginal rate of tax is Tax rate applicable to the top slice or bracket of a taxpayer's income or other taxable income, where the relevant tax on such items is levied at progressive rates.

The defination and meaning of Marine insurance is Coverage for goods in transit, and for the commercial vehicles that transport them, on water and over land. The term may apply to inland marine but more generally applies to ocean marine insurance. Covers damage or destruction of a ship?s hull and cargo and perils include collision, sinking, capsizing, being stranded, fire, piracy, and jettisoning cargo to save other property. Wear and tear, dampness, mould, and war are not usually included.

The defination and meaning of Mark to market is Tax and/or accounting convention under which the value of assets/liabilities is adjusted to reflect fair market value of a specific date.

The defination and meaning of Mark-to-Market is To debit or credit on a daily basis a margin account based on the close of that day's trading session. In this way, buyers and sellers are protected against the possibility of contract default.

The defination and meaning of Marked to Market is At the end of each business day the open positions carried in an account held at a brokerage firm are credited or debited funds based on the settlement price of the open positions that day.

The defination and meaning of Market is The place where buyers and sellers meet to exchange goods and services. It also represents the actual or potential demand for a product or service.

The defination and meaning of Market Breadth is The shares of a particular stock traded during a specific period. Usually refers to the overall strength and trading volume of the market.

The defination and meaning of Market Cap is This is a company's market capitalization. To calculate the market cap, simply multiply the issued and outstanding shares by the current selling price.

The defination and meaning of Market Capitalization is Latest stock price multiplied by number of shares outstanding (shares issued).

The defination and meaning of Market close is This refers to the time of day that a market closes. In the 24 hour-a-day foreign exchange market, there is no official market close. 5:00 PM EST is often referred to and understood as the market close because value dates for spot transactions change to the next new value date at that time.

The defination and meaning of Market If Touched is Resting order with the floor broker that becomes a market order to be executed if the trigger price is traded.

The defination and meaning of Market Information Data Inquiry System (MIDIS) is Historical Chicago Board of Trade price, volume, open interest, and other market information accessible by computers within the Chicago Board of Trade building.

The defination and meaning of Market Maker is A broker or bank continually prepared to make a two-way price to purchase or sell for a security or currency.

The defination and meaning of Market Not Held Order is This is a market order where the investor gives the floor trader the discretion to execute the order when he feels it is best. If the floor trader feels that the market will decline, he may hold the order to try to get a better fill. This order may not get filled.

The defination and meaning of Market on Close is An order specification that requires the broker to get the best price available on the close of trading, usually during the last five minutes of trading.

The defination and meaning of Market On Close Order is This is an order to be executed at the market price when the market closes. Institutions frequently use this method to buy or sell large numbers of shares, e.g., when a stock is to be added or deleted from an index and the institution must buy or sell the stock for an index fund. These orders are also used on day trades in order to close a position at the end of the session regardless of the price. It can also be used when you want to exit a position that day, but do not want to cut off a stock that is running during the day-place a market on close order and your trade will be executed at the closing price. As with all market orders, there is risk in that the stock that was rising and hit a target you would be happy at selling at, but then falls right before the close.

The defination and meaning of Market Order is Instructions to the broker to immediately sell to the best available bid or to buy from the best available offer.

The defination and meaning of Market Price Reporting and Information Systems is The Chicago Board of Trade's computerized price-reporting system.

The defination and meaning of Market Profile® is A Chicago Board of Trade information service that helps technical traders analyze price trends. Market Profile consists of the Time and Sales ticker and the Liquidity Data Bank®.

The defination and meaning of Market rate is The current quote of a currency pair.

The defination and meaning of Market Reporter is A person employed by the exchange and located in or near the trading pit who records prices as they occur during trading.

The defination and meaning of Market Risk is The uncertainty of returns attributable to fluctuation of the entire market.

The defination and meaning of Market Sentiment is Crowd psychology, typically a measurement of bullish or bearish attitudes among investors and traders.

The defination and meaning of Market Timing is Using analytical tools to devise entry and exit methods.

The defination and meaning of Market Value is Company value determined by investors, obtained by multiplying the current price of company stock by the common shares outstanding.

The defination and meaning of Market-maker is A person or firm that provides liquidity making two-sided prices (bids and offers) in the market.

The defination and meaning of Marketable Securities is Security investments that the firm can quickly convert into cash balances.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Marketable title is When the title to the property is clear and the person has the right and capacity to transfer the same then he is said to have a marketable title.

The defination and meaning of Markov Chain is A set of processes where the probabilities for the next state are dependent on the present state.

The defination and meaning of Master Card is Master Card is the branded offering from Master Card International and is distributed by issuing banks and financial institutions around the world.

The defination and meaning of Master Limited Partnership (MLP) is Similar to a real estate investment trust (REIT), except MLPs are not limited to a specific industry compared to REITs which must invest in real estate. Both types trade like stocks on the New York Stock Exchange, and both types must distribute most of their earnings in the form of dividends.

The defination and meaning of Matching Contributions is An employer contribution to an individual's 401(k) account based on the amount the individual contributes. For example, the employer may match 50 cents for every dollar the individual contributes.

The defination and meaning of Material is Describes misrepresentations that, had they been known at the time of a contract?s issuance, would have caused it not to be issued at all or issued on different terms.

The defination and meaning of Material Change is A change in an issuer's affairs that could have a significant effect on the market value of its securities, such as a change in the nature of the business or control of the issuer. Under the principle of continuous disclosure, a listed issuer must issue a news release and report to the applicable self-regulatory organization as soon as a material change occurs.

The defination and meaning of Mattha is Frontage of a building with the main road.

The defination and meaning of Maturity is This is the time at which the amount in the fixed deposit has to be returned to the investor. The fixed deposit is given for a time period that is decided at the time of making the investment and at the expiry this has to be given back.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Maturity is The date on which payment of a financial obligation is due.

The defination and meaning of Maturity Date is The date designated as the date when the policy matures or the date when the policyholder dies.

The defination and meaning of Maturity Date is The date on which the last payment on a bond is due.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Maturity Risk Premium (MRP) is Risk associated with interest rate uncertainty. The longer the time to maturity, the higher the premium.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Maximum Adverse Excursion is A historical measurement of the closed losing trades versus the closed profitable trades of a trading system. Used to determine the stop-loss level that can be used that will allow winning trades to remain; the extreme unfavorable price level reached for both profitable and unprofitable trades.

The defination and meaning of Maximum loan amount is Maximum amount financed under a scheme, represented as a fixed amount or percentage of the value of the asset.

The defination and meaning of Maximum possible loss is An estimate of the worst loss that might result from a given occurrence.

The defination and meaning of Maximum Price Fluctuation (futures) is The maximum amount the contract price can change, up or down, during one trading session, as stipulated by Exchange rules.

The defination and meaning of Mcclellan oscillator is This index is based on New York Stock Exchange net advances over declines. It provides a measure of such conditions as overbought/oversold and market direction on a short-to- intermediateterm basis. The McClellan Oscillator measures a bear market selling climax when it registers a very negative reading in the vicinity of -150. A sharp buying pulse in the market would be indicated by a very positive reading, well above 100. [centrex.com]

The defination and meaning of MCX is Multi Commodity Exchange of India is a de-mutualised online commodity exchange of India promoted by Financial Technologies (I) Ltd, SBI, Fidelity International, NSE, NABARD, HDFC Bk, SBI Life Insurance Co., Union Bank of India, Canara Bk, Bank of India, Bank of Baroda and Corporation Bank.

The defination and meaning of Mean Deviation is The average absolute value of the difference between the population of numbers and the mean.

The defination and meaning of Mean P/L is The average profitability of a trader's account, as measured over a given period.

The defination and meaning of Mean Return is The average monthly total return of a stock. The total return is price change added to dividends.

The defination and meaning of Mean Reverting is The term adopted in academic literature for one possible state of a price series: that state when price is oscillating randomly about some (unknown) mean value. That is, it is not trending.

The defination and meaning of Measured Move is The tendency of some stocks to move in equal or similar price distances before starting a consolidation phase.

The defination and meaning of Medallion is Medallion is a round piece of metal resembling like a coin.

The defination and meaning of Median Market Cap is The average market capitalization of stocks owned by a mutual fund.

The defination and meaning of Mediation is Nonbinding procedure in which a third party attempts to resolve a conflict between two other parties.

The defination and meaning of Medical is A document completed by a physician or another approved examiner and submitted to an insurer to supply medical evidence of insurability (or lack of insurability) or in relation to a claim.

The defination and meaning of Medical payments is Reasonable and necessary medi-cal expenses caused by an accident and sustained by the insured. Such expenses must occur within three years of the accident.

The defination and meaning of Medical payments insurance is A coverage in which the insurer agrees to reimburse the insured and others up to a certain limit for medical or funeral expenses as a result of bodily injury or death by accident. Payments are without regard to fault.

The defination and meaning of Member is See Participating Organizations (POs) and Members

The defination and meaning of Member Short Sales Ratio is The ratio of the amount of short selling by NYSE members as a whole to the total amount of short-selling done on the exchange over the period under examination. Used as an indication of the sentiment of market professionals as compared with that of the public at large.

The defination and meaning of Memorandum of understanding (mou) is In the context of a tax treaty, a document exchanged between the treaty partners which sets out the understanding of the parties regarding the convention. Usually this does not have treaty status, but the status depends on the document itself.

The defination and meaning of Message Board is A location on a Web site dedicated to the discussion of a particular topic, usually a single stock or industry sector. Discussions are not real-time. Someone posts a message, and then others respond over a period of hours or days.

The defination and meaning of Metric ton is A metric ton is 1,000 kilograms or 32,151 troy ounces.

The defination and meaning of Mid-Cap is Company with market capitalization between $2 billion and $7 billion.

The defination and meaning of Mine subsidence coverage is An endorsement to a homeowners insurance policy, available in some states, for losses to a home caused by the land under a house sinking into a mine shaft. Excluded from standard homeowners policies, as are other forms of earth movement.

The defination and meaning of Minimum Fill Order is A special term order with a minimum fill condition will only begin to trade if its first fill has the required minimum number of shares. For example, an order to buy 5,000 shares with a minimum volume of 2,000 shares can only trade if 2,000 or more shares become available.

The defination and meaning of Minimum Guaranteed Fill (MGF) Orders is These orders are guaranteed a complete fill upon entry. A Registered Trader will provide the stock should the book be below the required limit. To be eligible for MGF, an order has to be a tradable client order with a volume less than or equal to the MGF size, which varies from stock to stock.

The defination and meaning of Minimum loan amount is Minimum amount financed under a scheme, represented as a fixed amount.

The defination and meaning of Minimum Payment is The minimum amount that a card holder can pay to keep the account from going into default. Some banks set a high minimum if they are uncertain of the card holder's ability to pay. In general for credit cards, minimum payment is 2% of the outstanding balance.

The defination and meaning of Minimum Price Fluctuation is The smallest allowable increment of price movement for a contract.

The defination and meaning of Minimum Subscription is The minimum shares the company needs to get from the public out of the total issue by the date of closure. (Presently every company need to raise 90% of the issued amount). Else, the company shall refund the whole amount received. This 90 % has to be exclusive of the cheques that are not cleared.

The defination and meaning of Minimum tax is In certain countries corporations are always liable to a certain amount of annual tax, regardless of whether they have realized a profit.

The defination and meaning of Ministry of finance (mof) is Department of government generally responsible for formulating monetary policy, implementing the tax laws, collecting revenue, etc.

The defination and meaning of Minor Auction is The latest trend of the market, i.e., what it is doing now.

The defination and meaning of Mint mark is Mint mark is a letter or symbol stamped on a coin to recognize its minting facility.

The defination and meaning of Misrepresentation is Act of making, issuing, circulating or causing to be issued or circulated an estimate, an illustration, a circular or a statement of any kind that does not represent the correct policy terms, dividends or share of surplus or the name or title for any policy.

The defination and meaning of Misstatement-of-age clause is A clause in life insurance requiring an adjustment of the amount of insurance payable in the event the age of the insured has been misrepresented.

The defination and meaning of Misstatement-of-sex clause is If a person?s sex has been misrepresented, the insurer adjusts the amount of proceeds payable rather than cancelling the policy altogether.

The defination and meaning of Mixed Lot or Broken Lot is An order with a volume that combines any number of board lots and an odd lot.

The defination and meaning of Mixer company is Term used to designate an intermediate holding company the purpose of which is to "mix" income from various foreign sources in order to maximize the benefit of foreign tax credits. The mixer company receives income both from countries with a higher tax rate than that of the destination country and from countries with a lower tax rate, which it then pays out as a dividend. This structure has the effect of averaging out the rate of foreign tax paid.

The defination and meaning of Model is A strategy for selecting stocks using screening criteria that have been found to work in the past.

The defination and meaning of Momentum is The strength or sustainability of a market move as measured by both volume and price. Moving average based indicators are often used, as are comparisons with the levels of previous time period.

The defination and meaning of Momentum Analysis is Usually involves looking for stocks in a strong uptrend (high relative strength), strong earnings growth, and increasing earnings forecasts. In today’s market, may include relative strength only.

The defination and meaning of Momentum divergence is Momentum divergence is the deviation of price and volume demonstrated as a continuation of a trend without the necessary momentum to sustain the move. For example, the price of a stock may continue to rise, however, the volume begins to decline behind the ascension, indicating a lack of conviction from the buyers. Momentum divergence can signal a pending trend reversal.

The defination and meaning of Momentum Stocks is Companies currently in favor by investors (price/sales greater than 10, price/earnings greater than 35 or so).

The defination and meaning of Money Back Plan is A plan in which part of the sum assured is paid back to the policyholder at regular intervals.

The defination and meaning of Money flow index is A volume indicator that combines the ideas of positive and negative volume with the RSI calculation. Money flow is defined as the typical daily price times today’s volume. This quantity is tracked from day to day, and averages of up-money flow days and down-money flow days over some specified period of time are computed. MFI is defined as the percentage of the total money flow that is up.

The defination and meaning of Money Market is Part of the capital market established to buy and sell short-term financial obligations. These include federal government treasury bills, short-term Government of Canada bonds, commercial paper, bankers' acceptances and guaranteed investment certificates. Longer-term securities are also traded in the money market when their term shortens to three years.

The defination and meaning of Money Market Fund is A mutual fund that invests only in money markets such as commercial papers, commercial bills, and treasury bills certificate of deposit and other instruments specified by RBI. These funds have a minimum lock-in period of 15 days. Till recently, the RBI regulated money market funds but they now come under SEBI.

The defination and meaning of Money Purchase Plan Definition is In a money purchase pension plan, employers are required to contribute a fixed percentage of each eligible employee's salary annually to each worker's separate account. The contributions are tax-deductible to the employer and tax-deferred for the employees. Investments grow tax-free until money is withdrawn in retirement.

Contributions for highly paid employees can't outweigh contributions for lower-paid employees by too much. If complicated "top-heavy" tests show that they do, contribution limits may be reduced for the highly paid.

The Internal Revenue Service also can punish the company with excise taxes if it fails to fully fund its plan.

Money purchase plans were once commonly combined with profit-sharing plans, which gave companies the benefit of high contribution limits and a degree of flexibility in determining the amount of each year's contributions. In recent years, though, contribution limits have risen significantly for much simpler types of plans, removing most of the advantage from the money plan/profit-sharing combination.

The defination and meaning of Money Stop is A fixed amount of money that a market participant would lose if a stop were hit.

The defination and meaning of Monthly Interest Rate is The rate of interest charged for funds withdrawn from ATMs or funds carried forward beyond the free credit period.

The defination and meaning of Moral hazard is A hazard resulting from the indifferent or dishonest attitude of an individual in relation to insured property.

The defination and meaning of Mortality Charge is The charge for the element of pure insurance protection in the life insurance policy.

The defination and meaning of Mortality Cost is The first factor considered in for arriving at life insurance premium rates. Insurers have an idea of the probability that any person will die at any particular age; this is the information shown in a mortality table.

The defination and meaning of Mortality Rate is The number of deaths in a group of people, usually expressed as deaths per thousand.

The defination and meaning of Mortality table is A table that shows the number of deaths per thousand and the expectation of life at var-ious ages.

The defination and meaning of Mortgage is The conveyance of a legal or equitable interest in freehold or leasehold property as security for a loan and with provision for redemption on repayment of the loan. The lender (mortgagee) has powers of recovery in the event of default by the borrower (mortgagor). A mortgage is a form of land charge and can be either legal or equitable.

The defination and meaning of Mortgage clause is A clause in insurance contracts that gives first right of recovery to the mortgagor of property that is covered.

The defination and meaning of Mortgage insurance is A form of decreasing term insurance that covers the life of a person taking out a mortgage. Death benefits provide for payment of the outstanding balance of the loan. Coverage is in decreasing term insurance, so the amount of coverage decreases as the debt decreases. A variant, mortgage unemployment insurance pays the mortgage of a pol-icyholder who becomes involuntarily unemployed.

The defination and meaning of Mortgage REIT is A real estate investment trust (REIT) whose primary business is investing in real estate loans.

The defination and meaning of Mortgage tax is Tax on mortgages usually in the form of a stamp duty levied on the mortgage document.

The defination and meaning of Mortgage-backed securities is Investment grade securities backed by a pool of mortgages. The issuer uses the cash flow from mortgages to meet interest payments on the bonds.

The defination and meaning of Mortgagee is A person or organization holding a mortgage.

The defination and meaning of Most Active Stocks is A list of those stocks which have traded the most shares during the period, usually the day of the week. The list is a guide to those stocks or groups which are attracting the most attention. The average price of the list can be a guide to whether conversative or speculative issues are gaining in interest.

The defination and meaning of Most Recent Quarter (MRQ) is As of the last date of the last reported fiscal quarter.

The defination and meaning of Motive test is Test often found in tax rules which are designed to prevent tax avoidance. For example, the rules may provide that certain consequences will follow if the sole, main or principal purpose of certain transaction is the reduction of tax.

The defination and meaning of Moving Average is A continuous smoothing technique computed by averaging a series of numbers (price, volume, etc.) progressively over a period of time. The series is often a week, a month or a quarter in length and is computed anew as each day or week goes by. It is often then plotted on a chart with the raw data for analysis purposes.

The defination and meaning of Moving Average (MA) is The average closing price of a stock over a specified period. For instance, the 10-day MA is the average closing price for the past 10 days. Stocks are said to be in an uptrend when above their MA and in a downtrend when below. The most widely followed MAs are 50 days and 200 days. Long-term investors tend to look at the 200-day MA while active traders are more likely to pay attention to the 50-day MA. Many investors look at both. As a general rule, it's best to avoid stocks trading below both their 50- and 200-day MAs.

The defination and meaning of Moving Average Charts is A statistical price analysis method of recognizing different price trends. A moving average is calculated by adding the prices for a predetermined number of days and then dividing by the number of days.

The defination and meaning of Moving Average Convergence/ Divergence (MACD) is The crossing of two exponentially smoothed moving averages that are plotted above and below a zero line. The crossover, movement through the zero line, and divergences generate buy and sell signals.

The defination and meaning of Moving Average Convergence/Divergence (MACD) is This is a technical indicator that measures moving average convergence/divergence and provides a measurement of the intensity of the trading of a specific stock. It can provide early clues to trend continuation or reversal. The MACD indicator uses three exponential moving averages: a short or fast average, a long or slow average, and an average of the difference between the short and long averages. When the MACD line is rising, the implications are positive for prices: If the indicator is less than zero, the price is potentially bullish. If the indicator is greater than zero, the price is actually bullish. When the MACD line is falling, the implications are negative for prices: If the indicator is less than zero, the price is actually bearish. If the indicator is greater than zero, the price is potentially bearish.The signal line can be used to determine the entry or exit point. The signal line is a moving average of the MACD line. When signal line crosses MACD line and both lines are up, it is a buy signal. When signal line crosses MACD line and both lines are down, it is a sell signal.

The defination and meaning of Moving Average Crossovers is The point where the various moving average lines intersect each other or the price line on a moving average price bar chart. Technicians use crossovers to signal price-based buy and sell opportunities.

The defination and meaning of Moving Negative Divergence is When two or more indicators, indexes, or averages, fail to show confirming trends.

The defination and meaning of Moving Window is Snapshot of a portion of a time series at an instant in time. The window is moved along the time series at a constant rate.

The defination and meaning of MSCCGMF is Maharashtra State Co-operative Cotton Growers Marketing Federation

The defination and meaning of MSP is Minimum Support Prices.

The defination and meaning of Multi-stage tax system is Indirect tax charged on the same goods at successive stages of production and distribution.

The defination and meaning of Multicolinearity is Multicolinearity – Sensible technical analysis means avoiding multicolinearity or the use of more than one indicator to count the same information. For instance, MACD, RSI and Rate-of-change are all based on closing prices and all are momentum indicators. Using these together would be practicing multicolinearity. To avoid multicolinearity, indicators should complement one another. For example, RSI, Chaikin Money Flow and moving averages might be used together to avoid multicolinearity. RSI for momentum, Chaikin Money Flow for buying and selling pressure and moving averages trend following.

The defination and meaning of Multijurisdictional Disclosure System (MJDS) is A disclosure system that facilitates certain Canadian-U.S. cross-border securities offerings, issuer bids and takeover bids. It is intended to reduce costly duplication of disclosure requirements and other filings when issuers from one country register securities offerings in the other. Under the rules, eligible cross-border offerings are governed by the disclosure requirements of the issuer's home country.

The defination and meaning of Multiple Linear Regression is More than one independent variable is used to account for the variability in one depen dent variable.

The defination and meaning of Multiple peril policy is A package policy, such as a homeowners or business insurance policy, that provides coverage against several different perils. It also refers to the combination of property and liability coverage in one policy.

The defination and meaning of Municipal Bonds is Debt securities issued by state and local governments, and special districts and counties.

The defination and meaning of Must-Be-Filled (MBF) Order is Orders placed before the market opens to buy or sell shares of stocks when their options expire. These orders are guaranteed a complete fill at the opening price to offset expiring options. They must be ordered between 4:15 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. on the Thursday before the third Friday of each month.

The defination and meaning of Mutual Fund is A Mutual Fund (MF) is a form of trust that pools the funds of a whole lot of investors to make more money by investing in an array of financial instruments.

The defination and meaning of Mutual Fund Liquidity Ratio is The ratio of cash (and equivalents) to total assets held by mutual funds (excluding money market funds). Published monthly with about a one month delay by the Investment Company Institute, Washington, D.C., it is used as a guide to both potential demand for stocks and to the degree of bullishness/bearishness on the part of some professional money managers.

The defination and meaning of NABARD is National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development

The defination and meaning of NAFED is National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Limited

The defination and meaning of Naked Put is The writer of a put option contract who is not short the underlying security.

The defination and meaning of Naked Writer is A seller of an option contract who does not own a position in the underlying security.

The defination and meaning of Name is A member of a Lloyd?s association; essentially an investor and underwriter.

The defination and meaning of Named insured is An individual in whose name the insurance contract is issued and who is specifically identified as the person being covered.

The defination and meaning of Named peril is Peril specifically mentioned as covered in an insurance policy.

The defination and meaning of Named-perils agreement is An insurance contract that lists perils to be insured; perils not listed are not covered.

The defination and meaning of Narrow participation is When a stock is below its 200-day moving average, we can conclude that it is in a long-term declining trend. Currently about 70% of NYSE stocks are below their 200-DMA, yet the NYSE Composite is very near all-time highs. This shows how narrow participation has become, meaning that money has become concentrated in a small group of large-cap stocks. This deterioration has taken place over an extended period of time (about a year and a half), and currently the configuration is quite similar to the setups into the July 1990 and October 1994 tops. The subsequent results of those tops were declines of 20% and less than 10% respectively, showing that there is a wide range of possible outcomes, but I think we should be expecting some serious trouble in a month or two.

The defination and meaning of Narrow Range Day is A trading day with a smaller price range relative to the previous day's price range.

The defination and meaning of NASDAQ index is An after-market index specialized on shares of leading technology companies. Plotted as the average weighted shares market price.

The defination and meaning of National Futures Association (NFA) is An industry-wide, industry-supported, self-regulatory organization for futures and options markets. The primary responsibilities of the NFA are to enforce ethical standards and customer protection rules, screen futures professionals for membership, audit and monitor professionals for financial and general compliance rules, and provide for arbitration of futures-related disputes.

The defination and meaning of National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) is This is an organization, which is an intermediary between the Registrar and the company for dematerialisation of shares.

The defination and meaning of Nationality principle is The nationality of a taxpayer may affect the manner in which he is taxed and the nature of his tax burden, but comprehensive income tax treaties commonly provide that foreign taxpayers should not suffer discriminatory taxation by reason of their nationality.

The defination and meaning of NBOT is National Board of Trade (NBOT) is a national multi-commodity exchange located at Indore.

The defination and meaning of NCDEX is National Commodity and Derivative Exchange of India is a de-mutualised online commodity exchange of India promoted by NSE, ICICI Bk, LIC, PNB, CRISIL, NABARD IFFCO and Canara Bk.

The defination and meaning of NCDEXRAIN is NCDEXRAIN is a rainfall index of NCDEX which tell us what percentage of cumulative normal expected rainfall (till the date of the index) it has actually rained taking into consideration average actual rainfall at both Colaba and Santa Cruz weather stations in Mumbai.

The defination and meaning of Near Birth Day(n.b.d) is Age on nearest birthday

The defination and meaning of Near-the-Money is An option with a strike price close to the current price of the underlying tradable.

The defination and meaning of Nearby is The nearest active trading month of a futures or options on futures contract. It is also referred to as "lead month."

The defination and meaning of Nearby (Delivery) Month is The futures contract month closest to expiration. Also referred to as spot or front month.

The defination and meaning of Necessary Margin is The guarantee (in monetary expression), which is required by the dealer to maintain an open position.

The defination and meaning of Neckline is A trendline drawn along the support or resistance points of various reversal and consolidation pattern (i.e., head and shoulder, double and triple top/bottom formations).

The defination and meaning of Negative act is A negligent act that consists of a party?s failure to do something he or she should have done.

The defination and meaning of Negative Amortization is This means that a payment of the stated size is insufficient to repay even the interest on the debt, meaning the total debt actually increases each month instead of falling.

The defination and meaning of Negative divergence is When two or more indicators, indexes, or averages, fail to show confirming trends. A negative Divergence occurs when a price index is making a higher top at the same time a technical indicator is flat or making a lower top.

The defination and meaning of Negative income tax is A proposed system of providing financial aid to poverty-level individuals and families, using the mechanisms already in place to collect income taxes. Low-income person or family would receive a direct subsidy, called a negative income tax.

The defination and meaning of Negative Yield Curve is A chart in which the yield level is plotted on the vertical axis and the term to maturity of debt instruments of similar creditworthiness is plotted on the horizontal axis. The yield curve is positive when long-term rates are higher than short-term rates; however, the yield curve is sometimes negative or inverted.

The defination and meaning of Negligence is The failure to exercise the degree of care required by law.

The defination and meaning of Negotiation is Discussion, written or otherwise, between two or more parties of different sides, the aim being to reach a common agreement.

The defination and meaning of Net Asset Value is The total market value of all securities contained in a mutual fund; also known as price per share.

The defination and meaning of Net Asset Value (NAV) is NAV represents the value of a unit in the scheme and is the main performance indicator for a mutual fund.

The defination and meaning of Net Asset Value Per Unit is The current market worth of a mutual fund share. Calculated daily by taking the funds total assets: securities, cash and any accrued earnings, deducting liabilities, and dividing the remainder by the number of units outstanding.

The defination and meaning of Net Assets is This figure represents the fund's total asset base, net of fees and expenses.

The defination and meaning of Net Change is The difference between the previous day's closing price and the last traded price.

The defination and meaning of Net income is Net income is gross income less deductible income-related expenses. Many countries levy income tax on this basis.

The defination and meaning of Net Offer is The rest of the issued capital after allotting to promoters, which would be raised from the public is called Net Offer.

The defination and meaning of Net operating loss is Amounts by which business expenses exceed income in a tax year. A trader's operating losses constitute broadly the excess of his operating expenditure over receipts from his operations.

The defination and meaning of Net present value is The present value of the cash inflow minus the present value of the cash outflow.

The defination and meaning of Net present value method (NPV) is A method used in discounted cash flow analysis to find the sum of money representing the difference between the present value of all inflows and outflows of cash associated with the project by discounting each at a target yield.

The defination and meaning of Net profit is Difference between receipts from business transactions and deductible business expenses, subject to any adjustments for tax purposes.

The defination and meaning of Net profit margin is Ratio of operating profits to gross income (or revenue)

The defination and meaning of Net wealth tax is See: Net worth tax

The defination and meaning of Net Worth is The difference between a company's or individual's total assets and its total liabilities. Also known as shareholders' equity for a company.

The defination and meaning of Net worth tax is Many European countries impose the net worth tax in the context of property taxation. The taxable base for resident taxpayers is normally the taxpayer's worldwide net worth, i.e. total assets less liabilities along with deductions and exemptions specially allowed by tax laws.

The defination and meaning of New Issue is A security publicly offered for sale for the first time.

The defination and meaning of New Issuer Listing is Occurs concurrently with the posting of the new issuer's securities for trading. The preconditions for listing include the acceptance by the Exchange that all listing requirements and conditions have been satisfied. The effective listing date is the date when the listed securities open for trading.

The defination and meaning of New Issuer Listing - IPO (Initial Public Offering) is An IPO (initial public offering) is an issuer's first offering of its securities made to the public in accordance with a prospectus. The offering is often made in conjunction with an issuer's initial application for listing on an exchange.

The defination and meaning of New Issuer Listing - Plan of Arrangement is An issuer listing as a result of a plan of arrangement. A plan of arrangement is a form of corporate reorganization that must be approved by a court and by the corporation's shareholders or others affected by the proposed arrangement, all as prescribed by corporate legislation. A plan of arrangement can take various forms, including:An amalgamation of two or more corporations A division of the business of the corporation A transfer of all or substantially all of the property of the corporation to another corporation  An exchange of securities of the corporation held by security holders of the corporation for other securities, money, or other property that is not a takeover bid  A liquidation or dissolution of the corporation  A compromise between the corporation and its creditors or holders of its debt  Any combination of the foregoing.

The defination and meaning of New Issuer Listing - Spin-Off is A reorganization that usually results in a newly listed issuer acquiring a business division or assets as its principal operating asset from another issuer (the reorganized issuer), with security holders of the reorganized issuer holding securities in both issuers, following completion of the reorganization.

The defination and meaning of New Listing is A security issue that is newly added to the list of tradable security issues of an exchange. It is accompanied with a new listing date.

The defination and meaning of New York Stock Exchange(NYSE) is One of the major US stock exchanges. At NYSE the Dow Jones index as well as NYSE Composite index are defined. It was founded in May 1792.

The defination and meaning of Nikkei 225 (Nikkey Stock Average) is The major index of the Japanese stock exchange. It is calculated as the average shares rate of 225 major companies, quoted in Tokyo stock exchange.

The defination and meaning of NMCE is National Multi Commodity Exchange is the first De-Mutualised Electronic Multi-Commodity Exchange of India located at Ahmedabad was granted the National status on a permanent basis by the Government of India and operational since 26th November 2002.

The defination and meaning of NNP is Net National Product

The defination and meaning of No Load Fund is Mutual fund that does not impose any sales charge or commission for buying and selling the units.

The defination and meaning of No-fault is Auto insurance coverage that pays for each driver?s own injuries, regardless of who caused the accident. It also refers to an auto liability insurance system that restricts lawsuits to serious cases. Such policies are designed to promote faster reimbursement and to reduce litigation.

The defination and meaning of No-Load is Without any sales charge. For mutual funds, shares sold at net asset value.

The defination and meaning of No-pay, no-play is The idea that people who don?t buy coverage should not receive benefits. Prohibits uninsured drivers from collecting damages from insured drivers.

The defination and meaning of Noise is Fluctuations in the market which can confuse one’s interpretation of market direction.

The defination and meaning of Noisy Signal is A signal in which the effects of random influences cannot be dismissed.

The defination and meaning of Nominated bank is The bank that is stipulated in a documentary credit as authorised to pay or issue a deferred payment undertaking or accept drafts. A nominated Bank isnormally bound to pay under the credit.
Note: If the Bank has added its confirmation to the credit it becomes a confirming bank.

The defination and meaning of Nomination is A provision by which a policyholder can designate any person to receive the policy money in the event of his death.

The defination and meaning of Nomination is Banks ask their account holders to make nominations which mean that they should nominate persons to whom the money lying in their accounts should go in the event of their death. Nomination can be made in account opening form itself or on a separate form indicating the name and address of the nominee. The account holders can change the nomination any time.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Nominee is Nominee is the person selected by the policyholder to receive the benefit in case of death of the life insured thus giving a valid discharge to the insurer on settlement of claim under a life insurance policy.

The defination and meaning of Non conforming use is The use of a property which does not conform to the allocation of the area for planning purposes. Such a property may have been built in conformity with the planning requirement at the time and a policy change ensued; more usually, the property was constructed before planning control was introduced.

The defination and meaning of Non Medical Insurance is A contract of life insurance underwritten on the basis of an insured's statement of his health with no medical examination required.

The defination and meaning of Non-admitted insurer is : Insurers licensed in some states or countries, but not others. Countries where an insurer is not licensed call that insurer non-admitted. They sell coverage that is unavailable from licensed insurers within the country or state.

The defination and meaning of Non-Certificated Issues is An issue that is recorded on the transfer agent's electronic book rather than being held as a physical note.

The defination and meaning of Non-client order is An order on an exchange that is made by a participant firm or on behalf of a partner, officer, director, or employee of the participant firm. Where a participant firm is a firm that is entitled to trade on the exchange, also known as a member firm. While these orders are allowed, priority must be given to client orders for the same securities.

The defination and meaning of Non-discrimination is Tax treaties frequently contain a "non-discrimination" article which stipulates that citizens or nationals of one country resident in the other country may not be subjected to local taxation which is different from or more burdensome than the tax to which citizens and nationals of the host country are subjected under the same circumstances (including as to residency).

The defination and meaning of Non-Exempt Issuer is A listed issuer that is subject to special reporting rules.

The defination and meaning of Non-Net Order is A special-term order when there is a clear understanding between the buying and selling parties that they will settle the trade directly with each other.

The defination and meaning of Non-Operating Expenses is Expenses not due to basic business of company.

The defination and meaning of Non-Operating Income is Income not derived from basic business of company.

The defination and meaning of Non-owned auto is Any private passenger auto, pickup truck, van, or trailer nor owned by or fur-nished for the regular use of the insured or any family member while in the custody of or being operated by the insured or any family member.

The defination and meaning of Non-Parallel Shifts is A type of yield curve shift.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Non-participating policy is Non-participating policy is also known as a without-profit or non-par policy. The policy owner does not share in any divisible surplus made by the life insurance company. No bonus is paid on this policy.

The defination and meaning of Non-qualified Retirement Plan Definition is A non-qualified retirement plan is one that does not qualify for special tax treatment under the Internal Revenue Code or the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. In essence, a non-qualified retirement plan is a contract to provide pension benefits. Individuals can create one, but most are created by employers.

Contributors to non-qualified plans don't get the same tax benefits as contributors to qualified plans, such as 401(k)s, do.

But because they are not constrained by the codes, non-qualified plans can be much more flexible in setting benefit amounts and timing payouts. Most are created to attract and retain highly paid employees.

The defination and meaning of Non-recourse debt is A debt for which an individual has no personal liability. For example, a lender may take the property pledged as collateral to satisfy a debt, but has no recourse to other assets of the borrower.

The defination and meaning of Non-resident is Broadly speaking, a person who spends most of the calendar year outside his country of domicile. Non-residents are usually taxed on income derived from sources within the taxing jurisdiction whereas residents may be taxed on worldwide income.

The defination and meaning of Non-Resident Accounts is Non-Resident bank accounts are those, which are maintained by Indian nationals and Persons of Indian origin resident abroad, foreign nationals and foreign companies in India. Bank branches can open ordinary non-resident accounts in the names of private individuals provided initial deposits for opening the accounts are received from abroad in an approved manner or the initial amount is tendered in foreign currency while on a visit to India or transfer of funds from the existing non-resident account of the same person.
Bank Fixed Deposits, Non-Resident Accounts

The defination and meaning of Non-resident alien is A non-resident individual who is not a citizen or national of the taxing jurisdiction.

The defination and meaning of Non-Resident Order is A special term order when one or more participants in the trade is not a Canadian resident.

The defination and meaning of Non-Seasonal Autocorrelation is Autocorrelation that shows up other than at 12-month lag intervals.

The defination and meaning of Non-Standard Life is Any individual, who cannot be granted a policy under normal rates of premiums but can be granted with an extra premium over normal rates of premium, is considered as a Non-Standard Life.

The defination and meaning of Non-trading Operation is The following types of operations: deposit, withdrawal, repayment and extension of credit.

The defination and meaning of Non-Trend Day is A narrow range day lacking any discernible movement in either direction.

The defination and meaning of Noncancellable is A policy that cannot be cancelled by the insurer prior to a certain age. Premiums may be increased only by the amounts specified at the time the policy is issued.

The defination and meaning of Normal Distribution is For the purposes of statistical testing, the simulated net returns are assumed to be drawn from a particular distribution. If net returns are drawn from a normal distribution, low and high returns are equally likely, and the most likely net return in a quarter is the average net return.

The defination and meaning of Normalized is Adjusting a time series so that the series lies in a prescribed normal, standard range.

The defination and meaning of Normalized Earnings is Profits a company can be expected to achieve taking out cyclical effects and unusual events such as one-time write-offs caused by late product releases, customer bankruptcies and the like.

The defination and meaning of Nostro account is A bank account held by a bank with its foreign correspondent bank, in the currency of that foreign country.

The defination and meaning of Notary public is A public officer whose chief duties are certifying deeds and documents, noting protesting bills of exchange etc.

The defination and meaning of Note is Unsecured debt with a maturity of up to 10 years at the time of issue.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Notice Day is The day that a notice of intent to deliver is issued to a futures contract holder.

The defination and meaning of Notice of assessment is The written decision of the tax authorities after a review of a taxpayer's return, whereby the amount of taxable income is determined and the amount of tax due is calculated.

The defination and meaning of Notice of loss is A written notice required by insur-ance companies immediately after an accident or other loss. Part of the standard provisions defining a policy-holder?s responsibilities after a loss.

The defination and meaning of Noting is A minute or memorandum made by a Notary Public on a bill of exchange which has been dishonoured. The Bills of Exchange Act instructs that noting to be done within 24 hours of dishonour. It consists of their initials, their charges and the date. In the case of bills of exchange drawn and payable outside Australasia it is preparatory to a formal protest. The Bank can ‘note’ or ‘protest’ a bill of exchange if a Notary Public is not available.

The defination and meaning of NRO is NRO stands for Non-Resident Ordinary account. It refers to the savings or Fixed Deposit account of a Non-resident Indian in a bank in India. This is a Rupee account. Interest earned in this account is taxable. The account can be jointly held with a resident Indian. The principal and interest in this account are non-repatriable.
Bank Fixed Deposits, NRO

The defination and meaning of Nugget is Nugget is modern gold bullion coin created by Australia which is .9999 fine.

The defination and meaning of Objective risk is The probable variation of actual from expected experience.

The defination and meaning of Obligation of the borrower is The borrower in terms of the agreement will be obligated to keep up the schedule of repayment, to deposit the post dated cheques periodically and to keep the property free from encumbrance.

The defination and meaning of Obligee is In a bond, the party to be reimbursed if he or she suffers a loss because of some failure by the obligor.

The defination and meaning of Observer is A concept used in radar research, applicable to trading, in how often and what manner detection or radar contact is achieved.

The defination and meaning of OBV is On Balance Volume. OBV is one of the most popular volume indicators and was developed by Joseph Granville. Constructing an OBV line is very simple: The total volume for each day is assigned a positive or negative value depending on whether prices closed higher or lower that day. A higher close results in the volume for that day to get a positive value, while a lower close results in negative value. A running total is kept by adding or subtracting each day’s volume based on the direction of the close. The direction of the OBV line is the thing to watch, not the actual volume numbers.

Formula: OBV=SUM(C-CP)/(ABS(C-CP)xV)

C=Today’s Close CP=Yesterday’s Close V=Today’s Volume

The defination and meaning of Occupational disease is Abnormal condition or illness caused by factors associated with the workplace. Like occupational injuries, this is covered by workers compensation policies.

The defination and meaning of Occupational Hazard is A condition in an occupation that increases the peril of accident, sickness, or death. It usually will mean higher premiums.

The defination and meaning of Occurrence policy is Insurance that pays claims arising out of incidents that occur during the policy term, even if they are filed many years later.

The defination and meaning of Ocean marine insurance is Coverage of all types of vessels and watercraft, for property damage to the ves-sel and cargo, including such risks as piracy and the jettisoning of cargo to save the property of others. Coverage for marinerelated liabilities. War is excluded from basic policies, but can be bought back.

The defination and meaning of OCEIL is Online Commodity Exchange India Ltd. is a national multi-commodity exchange located at Ahmedabad.

The defination and meaning of OCO-One Cancels the Other Order is A combination of two orders in which the execution of either one automatically cancels the other.

The defination and meaning of Odd Lot is A block of stock consisting of less than 100 shares. When odd lots trade, a premium is usually tacked on by the specialist or market maker. These receive the least favorable price and trade last.

The defination and meaning of Odd lot theory is A technical analysis theory based on the assumption that the small investor is always wrong. Therefore, if odd lot sales are up – that is small investors are selling stock – it is probably a good time to buy.

The defination and meaning of Off Farm is The amount of stocks held by nonproducers including supplies held at mills, elevators, terminals, and processors.

The defination and meaning of Offence, tax is Tax offences may be specified in the tax laws covering matters such as late filing, late payment, failure to declare taxable income or transactions, and negligent or fraudulent misstatements in tax declarations.

The defination and meaning of Offer is An expression indicating one's desire to sell a commodity at a given price; opposite of bid. Also referred to as “ask”.

The defination and meaning of Offer and Acceptance is The offer may be made by the applicants signing the application, paying the first premium and, if necessary, submitting to physical examination. Policy issuance, as applied for, constitutes acceptance by the company.

The defination and meaning of Offer Date is Offer date of the issue is the first day the issue is traded publicly

The defination and meaning of Offer document is Offer document means Prospectus in case of a public issue or offer for sale and Letter of offer in case of a rights issue, which is filed with the Registrar of Companies (ROC) and Stock Exchanges. An offer document covers all the relevant information to help an investor to make his/her investment decision.

The defination and meaning of Offer price is Lowest price at which a dealer is willing to sell a commodity

The defination and meaning of Offered (selling) rate is Exchange rate at which dealers are prepared to sell foreign exchanges in the market and at which potential buyers are therefore able to buy foreign exchange from those dealers.

The defination and meaning of Offering Price is This is the price at which the IPO is first sold to the public. It is set by the lead manager, usually after the close of stock market trading the night before the shares are distributed to IPO buyers. In the case of some foreign IPOs, the pricing occurs over the weekend.

The defination and meaning of Office audit is An examination at a tax authority’s office, generally of an uncomplicated tax matter.

The defination and meaning of Offline Debit Card is Offline debit cards debit the amount spent to a card holder's bank account. A transaction using the offline debit card creates a debit against the cardholder's bank account. But unlike with a traditional debit card, no PIN is required during the transaction - all that is required is the user's signature. These cards are generally issued by credit card companies in association with the bank in which the account is held.

The defination and meaning of Offset is To take a second futures or options position opposite to the initial or opening position. See Liquidate.

The defination and meaning of On Balance Volume is A price/volume type of indicator where the volume for the period (day, week, etc.) is added to a cumulative total if the price rose, and subtracted if the price fell. No entry is made if the price was unchanged in the period. Developed and popularized by Joseph Granville in the early 1960s.

The defination and meaning of On-Balance Volume is Plotted as a line representing the cumulative total of volume. The volume from a day's trading with a higher close when compared with the previous day is assigned a positive value, while volume on a lower close from the previous day is assigned a negative value. Traders look for a confirmation of a trend in OBV with the market or a divergence between the two as an indication of a potential reversal.

The defination and meaning of On-Stop (O/S) Order is A special-term order placed with the intention of trading at a later date when the price of the stock reaches the specified stop price. An on-stop order becomes a limit order once a trade at the trigger price has occurred.

The defination and meaning of One hundred and eighty-three (183) days' rule is Presence in a country for 183 days or more in any 12-month period may have tax consequences, particularly in respect of an individual's residence for tax purposes or for the taxation of employment income (although other tests must also be met).

The defination and meaning of One-Sided Market is A market that has only buy orders or only sell orders booked for a particular security.

The defination and meaning of Online Debit Card is Online debit cards instantaneously deduct the amount spent from a card holder's bank account immediately. You will be asked to enter your Personal Identification Number (PIN) when you pay with an online debit card.

The defination and meaning of Ontario Securities Commission is The government agency that administers the Securities Act (Ontario) and the Commodity Futures Act (Ontario) and regulates securities and listed futures contract transactions in Ontario.

The defination and meaning of Onus of proof is The burden and responsibility of proving an assertion.  Widely adopted principle in tax law, for example, where the taxpayer has the basic responsibility of declaring his taxable income or transactions.

The defination and meaning of OPEC is Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries Opening Print The first price of a stock that comes across the ticker for the session.

The defination and meaning of Open is This is the price at which a security opens for the trading day. A stock can open at the previous closing price, gap up or gap down.

The defination and meaning of Open account is This is a method of settling payment for trade transactions. The supplier ships required goods to the buyer who, after receiving and checking the related shipping documents, credits the supplier’s account in their books with the invoice amount.
The account is then settled periodically, say monthly, by the buyer sending a bank draft, or arranging through their bank an airmail or telegraphic remittance in favour of the exporter.

The defination and meaning of Open End Mutual Fund is Investors buy shares directly from fund, and sell shares directly to fund. Share price is Net Asset Value (NAV).

The defination and meaning of Open Interest is The total number of futures or options contracts of a given commodity that have not yet been offset by an opposite futures or options transaction or fulfilled by delivery of the commodity or option exercise. Each open transaction has a buyer and a seller, but for calculation of open interest, only one side of the contract is counted.

The defination and meaning of Open Market is The reopening of the market after the close of the session, weekends and holidays.

The defination and meaning of Open Market Operation is The buying and selling of government securities–Treasury bills, notes, and bonds—by the Federal Reserve.

The defination and meaning of Open market value is The best price which might reasonably be expected to be obtained at arms' length for an interest in a property at the date of valuation, subject to any statutory assumptions which may be required.

The defination and meaning of Open Order is An order that remains in the system for more than a day. See Good-Till-Cancelled or Good-Till-Date.

The defination and meaning of Open Outcry is Method of public auction for making verbal bids and offers in the trading pits or rings of futures exchanges.

The defination and meaning of Open policy (OP) is A type of insurance policy intended to cover an indefinite number of future individual shipments. The insurance contract remains in force until
cancelled. Under the open policy, individual successive shipments are periodically reported or declared to the insurer and automatically covered on or after the inception date. Open policies can provide efficiency and savings for all parties concerned, especially when the insured conducts a significant volume of highly-similar transactions.

The defination and meaning of Open position is Difference between total spot/forward purchases and spot/forward sales in a currency on which an exchange risk is run, or the difference between the totals of foreign currency assets and liabilities.

The defination and meaning of Open Trades is Current trades that are still held active in the customer's account.

The defination and meaning of Open-End Investment Fund is An investment fund that continuously offers its securities to investors and stands ready to redeem its securities at all times. Transactions in shares/units of mutual funds are based on their net asset value (NAV), determined at the close of each business day. Examples of an open-end fund are traditional mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs).

The defination and meaning of Open-Ended Schemes is Mutual fund schemes that continuously offer new units to the public are called open-ended schemes. They offer units for sale without specifying any duration for redemption.

The defination and meaning of Open-perils agreement is States that it is the insurer?s intention to cover risks of accidental loss to the described property except due to those perils specifically excluded; also called?all risks.?

The defination and meaning of Opening is The market opens at 9:30 a.m. ET each business day.

The defination and meaning of Opening Call is A period at the opening of a futures market in which the price for each contract is established by outcry.

The defination and meaning of Opening Purchase is A transaction in which the purchaser's intention is to create or increase a long position in a given series of options.

The defination and meaning of Opening Range is The range of prices that occur during the first 30 seconds to five minutes of trading, depending on the preference of the individual analyst.

The defination and meaning of Opening Sale is A transaction in which the seller's intention is to create or increase a short position in a given series of options.

The defination and meaning of Operating Cash Flow is Surplus cash generated from company’s basic operations without regard to income tax entries such as depreciation and amortization. Changes in levels of inventories, accounts receivable and accounts payable also affect cash flow. Also see Free Cash Flow.

The defination and meaning of Operating Earnings is Not the same as operating income. See pro forma earnings.

The defination and meaning of Operating Expense is Are the expenses that a company incurs for normal cause of business. Includes cost of raw material, wages, etc.

The defination and meaning of Operating Income is Sales minus all expenses except income taxes and other items not related to basic business.

The defination and meaning of Operating lease is Lease where the lessor is regarded as the owner of the leased asset for tax purposes.

The defination and meaning of Operating Margin is Operating income divided by sales.

The defination and meaning of Opportunity cost is The cost of keeping monies liquid in a loss reserve fund rather than using them as working capital.

The defination and meaning of Opportunity Costs is Income foregone by the commitment of resources to another use.

The defination and meaning of Optimization is A methodology by which a system is developed with rules tailored to fit the data in question precisely.

The defination and meaning of Option is A contract that provides the right but not the obligation to buy or sell a specified amount of a security within a specified time period.

The defination and meaning of Option Buyer is The purchaser of either a call or put option. Option buyers receive the right, but not the obligation, to assume a futures position. Also referred to as the holder.

The defination and meaning of Option Class is All options of the same type, either calls or puts, that have the same underlying security.

The defination and meaning of Option Cycle is A set pattern of months when a class of options expires.

The defination and meaning of Option Holder is The buyer of an option contract who has the right to exercise the option during its lifetime.

The defination and meaning of Option Premium is The price of an option–the sum of money that the option buyer pays and the option seller receives for the rights granted by the option.

The defination and meaning of Option Seller is The person who sells an option in return for a premium and is obligated to perform when the holder exercises his right under the option contract. Also referred to as the writer or granter.

The defination and meaning of Option Series is An individual option contract for a given security.

The defination and meaning of Option Spread is The simultaneous purchase and sale of one or more option contracts, futures, and/or cash positions.

The defination and meaning of Option to be taxed is In the VAT context, a VAT exempt entrepreneur sometimes can claim to be subject to VAT, the advantage being that to be entitled to his input tax against his output tax.

The defination and meaning of Option Type is A call or put contract.

The defination and meaning of Option Writer is The person who sells an option in return for a premium and is obligated to perform when the holder exercises his right under the option contract. Also referred to as the writer or granter.

The defination and meaning of Option-Adjusted Spread is Option-Adjusted Spread
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Optional Cash Purchase is Buying additional shares made through the dividend reinvestment account.

The defination and meaning of Optional Term Contracts is These forward exchange contracts usually have an option period between 15 and 30 days.

The defination and meaning of Optionally renewable is A policy that can be cancelled by the insurer on the anniversary date. No restrictions, other than the time, are placed on the insurer.

The defination and meaning of Options is Contracts that allow, but do not oblige, the buying or selling of property or assets at a certain date at a set price.

The defination and meaning of OR is Owner’s risk. Variations are:
• ORB - owner’s risk of breakage
• ORF - owner’s risk of fire
• ORL - owner’s risk of loss (or leakage)

The defination and meaning of Order is The number of days of past price history used to predict the following day's price.

The defination and meaning of Order Number is An eight or nine-digit number assigned to every order entered into the system.

The defination and meaning of Ordinary life insurance is A life insurance policy that remains in force for the policyholder?s lifetime. It contrasts with term insurance, which only lasts for a specified number of years but is renewable.

The defination and meaning of Ordinary Life policy is A whole life insurance policy in which premiums are paid by the insured as long as she/he is alive.

The defination and meaning of Origin principle is Principle under a VAT regime where goods are taxed in the country where they are produced, i.e. they are taxed on the basis of their place of production or origin.

The defination and meaning of Original Age is The age you were when you bought the policy.

The defination and meaning of Oscillator is Technical indicator used to identify overbought and oversold price regions. An indicator that detrends data, such as price.

The defination and meaning of OTC Foreign Trading is OTC (over-the-counter) foreign trading refers to UMIR Rule 6.4 (e), which permits a trade to be executed off the Exchange, if one or both Participating Organization/Member client accounts are outside of Canada, provided such trades are reported within a specific time frame to the Exchange for public dissemination of the transaction.

The defination and meaning of Other income is Income not otherwise mentioned in a tax treaty is frequently dealt with in a separate article, entitled "other income".

The defination and meaning of Other insurance clauses is Clauses in practically all contracts of indemnity and valued contracts that limit the insurer?s liability in case additional insurance con-tracts also cover the loss.

The defination and meaning of Ounce/Troy ounce is Ounce is a unit used for measurement of weight. An ounce means a troy ounce equal to 31.1035 grams.

The defination and meaning of Out Trade is A mismatched trade between two traders in the pit, and which is settled the next day.

The defination and meaning of Out-Of-The-Money is A call option is out-of-the-money if the strike price is greater than the market price of the underlying security. A put option is out-of-the-money if the strike price is less than the market price of the underlying security.

The defination and meaning of Out-of-the-Money Option is An option with no intrinsic value; i.e., a call whose strike price is above the current futures price or a put whose strike price is below the current futures price.

The defination and meaning of Out-Trades is A situation that results when there is some confusion or error on a trade. A difference in pricing, with both traders thinking they were buying, for example, is a reason why an out-trade may occur.

The defination and meaning of Outdata is The result (singular) stemming from a statistical test.

The defination and meaning of Outgoings is Costs incurred by the owner of an interest in property, usually calculated on a yearly basis. Eg. management, repairs, rates, insurance and rent payable to the holder of a superior interest, as appropriate to his contractual or other liabilities. It is prudent to make annual provision for future items involving expenditure at intervals of more than one year.

The defination and meaning of Outlier is A value removed from the other values to such an extreme that its presence cannot be attributed to the random combination of chance causes.

The defination and meaning of Output tax is Term used in connection with VAT to denote the tax payable on the sales of goods or services by those who are subject to the tax and in contrast to the input tax for which a credit will be available.

The defination and meaning of Outright is An ‘outright (forward)’ is the purchase or sale of foreign currency for delivery at any forward date beyond two working days ahead.

The defination and meaning of Outside Reversal Month is A month in which the recent monthly trading range exceeds the previous month's range and closes opposite (reverses) the previous month's close.

The defination and meaning of Outstanding balance on loans is It is the unpaid balance on a loan taken by a policyholder.

The defination and meaning of Outstanding debt is Outstanding debt is the amount due by a policyholder towards his creditors or lenders.

The defination and meaning of Over-the-Counter Market is A market where products such as stocks, foreign currencies, and other cash items are bought and sold by telephone and other means of communication.

The defination and meaning of Overallotment is Part of the underwriting agreement which allows, in the event the offering is oversubscribed, the issuer to authorize additional shares(typically 15 percent ) to be distributed by the syndicate Also called the green shoe.

The defination and meaning of Overbought is Market prices that have risen too steeply and too quickly.

The defination and meaning of Overbought/Oversold Indicator is An indicator that attempts to define when prices have moved too far and too fast in either direction and thus are vulnerable to a reaction.

The defination and meaning of Overdue is A bill of exchange is said to be overdue when the time for its payment has passed, or if it is a bill payable on demand when it appears to have been in circulation for an unreasonable length of time as defined in the Bills of Exchange Act.

The defination and meaning of Overfitting is A model developed with rules tailored to fit the historical data precisely.

The defination and meaning of Overhead expenses is The general expenses of a business as opposed to the direct cost of producing a good or service. "Overhead costs" is a term which may, in tax matters, also be used for costs incurred by the head office of a concern for the benefit of branches or subsidiaries.

The defination and meaning of Overnight is An open position transfer to the next day.

The defination and meaning of Overnight position is Trader's long or short position in a currency at the end of a trading day.

The defination and meaning of Overshoot is To pass beyond or over a specific targeted level.

The defination and meaning of Oversold is Market prices that have declined too steeply and too quickly.

The defination and meaning of Oversubscribed is A situation in which investors have expressed an interest in buying more shares of a new security than will be available. Under this condition, the price of the security has a greater likelihood of opening higher in the secondary market than is the offering price.

The defination and meaning of Oversubscription is Any extra amount received by the company more than the proposed issued capital.

The defination and meaning of Ownership is All rights, benefits and privileges under life insurance policies are controlled by their owners. Policy owners may or may not be the insured. Ownership may be assigned or transferred by written request of the current owner.

The defination and meaning of P/E is This is an abbreviation of a stock's price-to-earnings ratio. The price-to-earnings ratio is a stock's share price divided by earnings per share for the company's most recent four quarters. A projected P/E divides the share price by estimated earnings per share for the coming four quarters.

The defination and meaning of Package policy is A single insurance policy that combines several coverages previously sold separately. Examples include homeowners insurance and commercial multiple peril insurance.

The defination and meaning of Packing list is A highly-detailed list describing the weight, volume, content and packaging for each separate export package.

The defination and meaning of Paid Up capital is The part of the issued capital of a company that has been paid up by the shareholders

The defination and meaning of Paid-in capital is The capital received by a corporation from investors for stock, as distinguished from capital generated by earnings or donated.

The defination and meaning of Paidup Value is Paidup value is the reduced amount of sum assured paid by the insurer in case of discontinuation of the payment of premiums after paying the full premiums for the first three years.

The defination and meaning of Pain and suffering damages is Non-economic damages designed to compensate the injured party for the pain endured due to the negligent behaviour of the defendant.Often greater than economic losses, such as loss of income and medical expenses.

The defination and meaning of Pair-and-set clause is Used to determine the loss payment when part of a set or one of a pair is lost. The insurance company will pay only the difference in the actual cash value of the item before and after the loss.

The defination and meaning of Par is The full principal amount of an investment instrument.

The defination and meaning of Par is A notion relating to fixed income instruments.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Par Value is A security's nominal face value.

The defination and meaning of Para-med (paramedical) Examination is The medical examination of applicants for life insurance.

The defination and meaning of Parabolic is (SAR) The Parabolic is a Time/Price system for the automatic setting of stops. The stop is both a function of price and of time. The system allows a few days for market reaction after a trade is initiated after which stops begin to move in more rapid incremental daily amounts in the direction the trade was initiated. For example, when a long position is taken the stop will move up regardless of price direction. However, the distance that the stop moves up is determined by the favorable distance the price has moved. If the price fails to move favorably within a certain period of time, the stop reverses the position and begins a new time period.

The defination and meaning of Partial disability is An illness or injury that decreases an individual?s ability to perform some of the major duties of his or her job, but does not cause complete cessation of employment.

The defination and meaning of Partial Fill is An order receives a partial fill when it trades only part of its total committed volume.

The defination and meaning of Participating is A type of life insurance policy in which a dividend (considered a return or a premium overcharge) is payable to the insured.

The defination and meaning of Participating Policy is A participating policy is also known as a with-profits or par policy. A participating policy charges a higher premium than a non-participating policy.

The defination and meaning of Pattern is A distinctive formation created on a chart by the up and down movement of prices. For example, head and shoulders, triangle, and double top

The defination and meaning of Patwari is Usually denotes the person appointed by a local government or land authority to maintain and update land ownership records for a specific area as well as to undertake the collection of land taxes.

The defination and meaning of Pay Date is With respect to stocks split or dividends, a pay date is the date that a company pays a dividend or stock split out, which is usually the day before the ex-dividend date.

The defination and meaning of Payable Date is The date on which distributions are paid to shareholders who do not want to reinvest them. This date can be anywhere from one week to one month after the record date.

The defination and meaning of Paying bank (or paying agent) is The bank that reviews the documents presented by the exporter and arranges payment to the exporter, if they conform to the terms and conditions of the documentary credit.

The defination and meaning of Payment for Order Flow is A payment made by a market maker to a broker as a thank you for directing your stock trade to that market maker.

The defination and meaning of Payment-In-Kind Program is A government program in which farmers who comply with a voluntary acreage-control program and set aside an additional percentage of acreage specified by the government receive certificates that can be redeemed for government-owned stocks of grain.

The defination and meaning of Payout Ratio is Percentage of earnings paid out in dividends.

The defination and meaning of Payroll tax is Tax charged on an employer's payroll (i.e. gross salaries, wages and other remunerations) paid to his employee without regard to their domicile, family status or other individual circumstances.

The defination and meaning of PDB is Permanent Disability Benefit

The defination and meaning of PDS is Public Distribution System.

The defination and meaning of PEG is Price to earnings ratio divided by the forecast annual earnings growth rate. Traditionally, stocks were said to be fairly valued when the p/e and the forecast growth rate were equal.

The defination and meaning of Penal interest is If the installments are not received as per the repayment terms, by the end of the month, the borrower will be charged interest on the installments delayed which is called as penal interest.

The defination and meaning of Penal rent is A financial punishment of a tenant for failing to honour his obligation to pay rent at the proper time, taking the form of a vastly higher figure being payable during the period of default.

The defination and meaning of Penalties is Administrative penalties are imposed for tax offences, such as failure to make a timely return or payment, negligence, and making a false return or statement. They take the form of additions to the tax and are assessed as part of the tax. Criminal penalties, on the other hand, are enforceable only by prosecution. A prison sentence may be imposed for serious tax fraud.

The defination and meaning of Pending order is A client’s order to open a position when a price reaches a certain level.

The defination and meaning of Pennant is A brief triangular consolidation within a steep advance having generally short-term implications.

The defination and meaning of Pensions is Programs to provide employees with retirement income after they meet minimum age and service requirements. Life insurers hold some of these funds.

The defination and meaning of Per-cause deductible is A deductible that is assessed for each new sickness or accidental injury.

The defination and meaning of Per-service deductible is A fee that is charged for each service or visit to the physician.

The defination and meaning of Percent to Double is We use this with respect to options trades in determining if we like an option enough to buy it or if we are in an option, if we want to stay in it. This calculation tells you how far the underlying stock must move before the option will double in value. We prefer a 7%-10% value, less if we can get it. This does not mean we will not buy an option, but it does give us insight as to how long we will hold it. Percent to double is a Smith Barney proprietary calculation.

The defination and meaning of Performance bond (guarantee) is A bond or guarantee which has been issued as security for one party’s performance: if that party (the principal) fails to perform the beneficiary under the bond/guarantee may obtain payment. A performance bond may be of either the demand or conditional variety, which means that the beneficiary may or may not be required to prove default by the principal in order to obtain payment.

The defination and meaning of Performance Bond Call is Previously referred to as Margin Call. A demand for additional funds because of adverse price movement.

The defination and meaning of Performance Bond Margin is The amount of money deposited by both buyer and seller of a futures contract or an option seller to ensure performance of the term of the contract. Margin in commodities is not a payment of equity or down payment on the commodity itself, but rather it is a security deposit. See Customer Margin and Clearing Margin.

The defination and meaning of Peril is A specific risk or cause of loss covered by an insurance policy, such as a fire, windstorm, flood, or theft. A named-peril policy covers the policyholder only for the risks named in the policy in contrast to an all-risk policy, which covers all causes of loss except those specifically excluded.

The defination and meaning of Permanent disability is An illness or injury that prevents a person from working for the rest of his or her life.

The defination and meaning of Permanent establishment (pe) is Term used in double taxation agreement (although it may also be used in national tax legislation) to refer to a situation where a non-resident entrepreneur is taxable in a country; that is, an enterprise in one country will not be liable to the income tax of the other country unless it has a "permanent establishment" thorough which it conducts business in that other country. Even if it has a PE, the income to be taxed will only be to the extent that it is ‘attributable’ to the PE.

The defination and meaning of Personal Accident Insurance is This is basically a life insurance which covers air accidents, road accidents or otherwise. The amount insured differs across the categories and again varies from one player to another.

The defination and meaning of Personal allowances is Personal allowances are granted to individuals as deductions from income in computing their taxable income. There is usually a deduction for the individual himself, spouse, children and other dependents.

The defination and meaning of Personal articles floater is A policy or an addition to a policy used to cover personal valuables, like jewellery.

The defination and meaning of Personal coverages is Those lines of insurance designed to cover the risk of perils that may interrupt an individual?s income.

The defination and meaning of Personal holding company is Company, the shares of which are principally owned by or attributed to the taxpayer, and which is set up to receive his investment income.

The defination and meaning of Personal Identification Number (PIN) is PIN or the Personal Identification Number is unique to every card and is a combination of numbers. It is normally a 16 digit number with the first 8 digits reserving information about the card issuer and the country. The next 8 stores customer information like the category of the member ( whether is a businessman, individual or NRI ). The PIN serves as a key, which allows you to avail certain services like cash withdrawal from automatic teller machines. This number is very important and must be stored carefully. Most credit card issuing banks instruct their clients to write the PIN in a very safe place or better still, to simply memorize the digits.

The defination and meaning of Pessimistic Rate of Return is A statistic that adjusts the usual wins/losses statistic to estimate the worst return from trading results. It reduces the number of wins by the square root of the actual number and increase the number of losses by the square root of the actual number of losses. The resulting numbers of wins or losses are multiplied by the average win or loss and the sum of the resulting wins/losses is divided by the required investment.

The defination and meaning of Phase Delay is The time lag that a filter falls behind the pre-filtered data.

The defination and meaning of Phasor is Used to describe the frequency, amplitude, and phase of all frequency components of the signal.

The defination and meaning of Physical hazard is A condition stemming from the material characteristics of an object, e.g., wet or icy street (increasing chance of car collision) and earth faults (hazard for earthquakes)

The defination and meaning of Pip is The smallest increment of change in a foreign currency price, either up or down.

The defination and meaning of Pipeline is A supply of new issues that are tentatively scheduled to come to market This pipeline is also referred to as 'visible supply'.

The defination and meaning of Pit is The area on the trading floor where futures and options on futures contracts are bought and sold. Pits are usually raised octagonal platforms with steps descending on the inside that permit buyers and sellers of contracts to see each other.

The defination and meaning of Pivot Point is The sum of the high, low and closing price divided by three. The following trading session, if the market falls below the pivot point, it could act as resistance. Accordingly, if the market rises above the pivot point it may act as support.

The defination and meaning of Planned retention is A conscious and deliberate assumption of recognized risk.

The defination and meaning of Platinum Card is If Platinum as a metal is known to be more precious than gold, it is likewise in cards whereby a Platinum Card is  of the line with higher spending limits and additional perks.

The defination and meaning of point is The minimum price fluctuation of a contract.

The defination and meaning of Point and Figure Chart is A method of charting in which only price changes (of a specific unit) and the direction of change are the variables. Time and volume dimensions are omitted. Price data are plotted on graph paper. New columns are begun when a reversal by at least one unite can be recorded.

The defination and meaning of Point value is A multiplication factor used to convert a reported price-per-unit of a commodity to the contract price. The definition of point value can vary from trader-to-trader. The purpose of the point value is to determine the price of a complete contract or to determine profit or loss. Therefore, you must know the contract size and the price quote to accurately the point value in making the desired conversion to dollars.

The defination and meaning of Point-and-Figure Charts is Charts that show price changes of a minimum amount regardless of the time period involved.

The defination and meaning of Point/pip is The last decimal place of an exchange rate quotation.

The defination and meaning of Policy is A written contract for insurance between an insurance company and policyholder stating details of coverage.

The defination and meaning of Policy Bonuses is In participating policies the company gives the policyholders a share in the profits of the company in the form of bonuses. Generally, there are two types of bonuses for insurance policies.

The defination and meaning of Policy Holder is The person who owns a life insurance policy, this is usually the insured person, but it may also be a relative of the insured, a partnership or a corporation.

The defination and meaning of Policy Term is The period of coverage provided by an insurance policy.

The defination and meaning of Policy writing is The function of creating a specific insurance policy for a client, usually by the agent.

The defination and meaning of Policyholder is The insured in an insurance policy.

The defination and meaning of Policyholders surplus is The amount of money remaining after an insurer?s liabilities are subtracted from its assets. It acts as a financial cushion above and beyond reserves, protecting policyholders against an unexpected or catastrophic situation.

The defination and meaning of Political risk insurance is Coverage for businesses operating abroad against loss due to political upheaval such as war, revolution, or confiscation of property

The defination and meaning of Pollution insurance is Policies that cover property loss and liability arising from pollution-related damages, for sites that have been inspected and found uncontaminated. It is usually written on a claims-made basis so policies pay only claims presented dur-ing the term of the policy or within a specified time frame after the policy expires.

The defination and meaning of Pool Account is Member pool account is a Demat account opened by Trading Members and / or Clearing Members of commodity exchanges. This account is opened to facilitate the pay-in and payout process

The defination and meaning of Pooling is Sharing total losses among a group

The defination and meaning of Portfolio is Holdings of securities by an individual or institution. A portfolio may include various types of securities representing different companies and industry sectors.

The defination and meaning of Portfolio Manager is A professional hired by the mutual fund advisor to make investment decisions concerning the purchase and sale of securities for the mutual fund portfolio in accordance with the fund's objectives.

The defination and meaning of Portfolio Turnover Rate is The rate at which the fund's portfolio securities are changed each year. If a fund's assets total Rs 100 crore and the fund bought and sold Rs 100 crore worth of securities that year, its portfolio turnover rate would be 100%. Aggressively managed funds generally have higher portfolio turnover rates than do conservative funds which invest for the long term. High portfolio turnover rates generally add to the expenses of a fund.

The defination and meaning of Position is A market commitment. A buyer of a futures contract is said to have a long position and, conversely, a seller of futures contracts is said to have a short position.

The defination and meaning of Position Day is According to the Chicago Board of Trade rules, the first day in the process of making or taking delivery of the actual commodity on a futures contract. The clearing firm representing the seller notifies the Board of Trade Clearing Corporation that its short customers want to deliver on a futures contract.

The defination and meaning of Position Limit is The maximum number of speculative futures contracts one can hold as determined by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and/or the exchange upon which the contract is traded. Also referred to as trading limit.

The defination and meaning of Position Management Ratio is The ratio of profits extracted on winning transactions versus losses suffered on trades that liquidate unprofitably.

The defination and meaning of Position Trading is An approach to trading in which the trader either buys or sells contracts and holds them for an extended period of time.

The defination and meaning of Positive act is Action often leading to legal injury.

The defination and meaning of Positive divergence is One of the most common and important technical signals is the positive divergence. It occurs when a price index is making a lower bottom at the same time a technical indicator is making a higher bottom.

The defination and meaning of Post-loss activities is Severity-reduction measures such as salvaging damaged property rather than dis-carding it.

The defination and meaning of Post-Offering Shares is The number of shares that will be outstanding after an IPO.

The defination and meaning of Power of attorney is Instrument in writing by which one person, as principal, appoints another as his agent and confers upon him the authority to perform certain specified acts or kinds of acts on behalf of the principal.

The defination and meaning of Pre-existing condition is A health problem that exists prior to the time when health coverage becomes effective.

The defination and meaning of Pre-loss activities is Loss control methods imple-mented before any losses occur. All measures with a frequency-reduction focus, as well as some based on severity reduction, are of this type.

The defination and meaning of Pre-stressed concrete is A type of reinforced concrete in which all or some of the ordinary steel reinforcement is replaced by high-tensile steel bars or wires which are tensioned by 'pre-tensioning' or 'post-tensioning'. The number and positioning of wires or tendons can be arranged to eliminate all tension in the concrete, thereby preventing cracking and so rendering the concrete water-tight and gas-tight as well as increasing in durability. Pre-stressed concrete structures can achieve greater spans and carry higher loading.

The defination and meaning of Pre-tax profits is Profit after deducting depreciation, costs, etc., but before deducting taxes.

The defination and meaning of Precertification is A cost-containment measurement requiring that certain non-emergency medical services be authorized prior to delivery of treatment.

The defination and meaning of Preferential Shares is These are the shares issued at a fixed coupon rate to investors which entails the foregoing of the right to participate in the management.

The defination and meaning of Preferred Shares is These are a type of stock issued by a company. Preferred shares give such shareholders a fixed dividend from the company's earnings. Preferred shareholders also get paid before common shareholders.

The defination and meaning of Preferred Stock is Debt instruments. Preferred shareholders are paid ahead of common stock holders in the event the corporation is liquidated. Convertible preferred shares can be converted into common stock according to predetermined conditions.

The defination and meaning of Premature death is Death that occurs before the stage where it is accepted by society as part of the natural, expected order of life.

The defination and meaning of Premises is The particular location of the property or a portion of it as designated in an insurance policy.

The defination and meaning of Premium is (1) The additional payment allowed by exchange regulation for delivery of higher-than-required standards or grades of a commodity against a futures contract. (2) In speaking of price relationships between different delivery months of a given commodity, one is said to be "trading at a premium" over another when its price is greater than that of the other. (3) In financial instruments, the dollar amount by which a security trades above its principal value. See Option Premium.

The defination and meaning of Premium is (1) This generally refers to extra money an investor is willing to pay to buy something. (2) For a bond, a premium is the amount for which the security sells above its par value.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Premium (futures) is The excess of one futures contract price over that of another, or over the cash market price. Or, The amount agreed upon between the purchaser and seller for the purchase or sale of a futures option. Remember that purchasers pay the premium and sellers (writers) receive the premium.

The defination and meaning of Premium (options) is An options price has two components. They are the intrinsic value and time value. Premium is often referred to as time value. In the money call option - option strike 65. Underlying security is 67. Option price is 3. This is two points of intrinsic value and 1 point of premium. An out of the money call where the strike price is 65 and the underlying security is at 63 and the price of the option is 1-1/2. The premium would be 1-1/2. As there is no intrinsic value.

The defination and meaning of Premium at the issue of shares is Excess of issue value over par value in issuing corporate shares. It is a contribution to capital and not taxed as profits.

The defination and meaning of Premium Flexibility is The policy-holders right to vary the amount of premium paid each month towards a universal life policy.

The defination and meaning of Premium option is A periodic payment made by the policyholder to the insurance company, in return for the lump sum to be received at the time of his death or when the policy matures.

The defination and meaning of Premium rent is A rent above the level which a property could reasonably be expected to command in the open market on normal terms. Such rents may be justified in instances where the tenant receives a present or future benefit against the market. Eg. in inflationary conditions where upward-only rent reviews are normally required at three-yearly intervals, the tenant may be prepared to pay a higher rent if fixed for a longer period of say, 5 years.

The defination and meaning of Premium Waiver Benefit(PWB) is Premium waiver benefits are the benefits which can be availed under wherein the future premiums payable upto vesting date are waived in the event of death of the proposer.

The defination and meaning of Premiums in force is The sum of the face amounts, plus dividend additions, of life insurance policies out-standing at a given time.

The defination and meaning of Premiums written is The total premiums on all policies written by an insurer during a specified period of time, regardless of what portions have been earned. Net premiums written are premiums written after reinsurance transactions.

The defination and meaning of Prepayment is It is the amount paid towards principal ahead of the prescribed repayment schedule. The benefit of interest is given to the party in such cases as per the norms of the company.

The defination and meaning of Prepayment is The payment of a debt prior to its being due.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Preprocessing is Altering data to some extent to be more accurately analyzed; smoothing, reducing unwanted data, removing trend. Processing data is mathematically transforming the data from one form into another with the goal of amplifying the pertinent information for traders.

The defination and meaning of Presentation is The act of presenting a bill of exchange or documents for acceptance, payment or negotiation.

The defination and meaning of Presumptive taxation is Concept of taxation according to which income tax is based on "average" income instead of actual income.

The defination and meaning of PREV is Q. What is the new PREV constant available in the Indicator Builder and how is it used? A. The PREV constant is used in a custom indicator to reference the previous output of the same formula. The following is a general example of a formula that uses PREV: PREV+1. The above formula takes the previous result of its own calculation and adds one to it. The formula is automatically “primed” with the first output so that there is something to start calculating with.The first output of this formula would be 2, then 3, then 4, and so forth.The PREV function is useful in performing exponential-type calculations. For example, an 18% exponential moving average can be calculated with the following formula: (close * 0.18) + (PREV* 0.82). The above formula takes 18% of the closing price and adds on 82% of the same formula’s previous result. For additional information, search for ‘Prev Constant’ in the MetaStock 6.0 online help or in the User’s Guide index.

The defination and meaning of Previous Balance is The method by which some card-issuing banks base their charges on the amount owed at the end of the previous billing cycle.

The defination and meaning of Price is The price at which the underlying currency can be bought or sold.

The defination and meaning of Price Discovery is The generation of information about "future" cash market prices through the futures markets.

The defination and meaning of Price earnings ratio is The ratio of the price of a stock to the earnings per share. Or total annual profit divided by the number of shares outstanding.

The defination and meaning of Price Gap is A price gap describes the situation where a stock opens at a price either higher or lower than the closing price the day before. This usually happens when some news affecting the value of the stock is announced after the market closes, e.g., positive or negative earnings, a buy-out, etc. Stocks that gap at the open often move back toward the previous close before moving again, but not always. Strong news such as projected higher earnings from the company tend to drive the stock without the pull back.

The defination and meaning of Price Limit is The maximum advance or decline–from the previous day's settlement–permitted for a contract in one trading session by the rules of the exchange. See also Variable Limit.

The defination and meaning of Price Limit Order is A customer order that specifies the price at which a trade can be executed.

The defination and meaning of Price patterns is Price Patterns are formations which appear on commodity and stock charts which have shown to have a certain degree of predictive value. Some of the most common patterns include: Head & Shoulders (bearish), Inverse Head & Shoulders (bullish), Double Top (bearish), Double Bottom (bullish), Triangles, Flags and Pennants (can be bullish or bearish depending on the prevailing trend).

The defination and meaning of Price quote is A multiplication factor used to convert a reported price-per-unit of a commodity to the contract price. When a quote includes a dash, the number following the dash is considered to be in 32nds rather than in tenths: 107-5 quote >> 107.15625 points

The defination and meaning of Price Range is This is the price range at which the company expects to sell its stock in a public offering. Also referred to as Offering Range.

The defination and meaning of Price to Book Ratio (p/b) is Latest share price divided by book value stated in latest report.

The defination and meaning of Price to Earnings Ratio (p/e) is Latest share price divided by 12-month earnings per share (eps). Also a measure of the market's enthusiasm for a company.

The defination and meaning of Price to Sales Ratio is The price of a stock divided by sales-per-share of the company in the most recent fiscal year.

The defination and meaning of Price to Sales Ratio (p/s) is Latest share price divided by 12-month sales per share.

The defination and meaning of Price transparency is The ability of all market participants to "see" or deal at the same price.

The defination and meaning of Price-Earnings (P/E) Ratio is A common stock's last closing market price per share divided by the latest reported 12-month earnings per share. This ratio shows you how many times the actual or anticipated annual earnings a stock is trading at.

The defination and meaning of Price/Book Ratio is The price/book (P/B) ratio of a fund is the weighted average of the price/book ratios of all the stocks in a fund's portfolio. Book value is the total assets of a company, less total liabilities (sometimes referred to as carrying value). A company's book value is calculated by dividing the market price of its outstanding stock by the company's book value, and then adjusting for the number of shares outstanding. (Stocks with negative book values are excluded from this calculation.)

The defination and meaning of Price/Earnings Ratio is Stock price divided by annual earnings per share.

The defination and meaning of Primary is Describes policies that will pay up to their limits before any other coverage becomes payable.

The defination and meaning of Primary adjustment is An adjustment that a tax administration in a first jurisdiction makes to a company's taxable profits as a result of applying the arm's length principle to transactions involving an associated enterprise in a second tax jurisdiction.

The defination and meaning of Primary Beneficiary is In life insurance the beneficiary designated by the insured as the first to receive policy benefits.

The defination and meaning of Primary Beneficiary Definition is A primary beneficiary is a person or entity designated as the first in line to inherit an asset. 
The owners of most retirement plans, annuities and life insurance policies have the right to name primary beneficiaries. They can choose people, trusts or charitable institutions, and they can name more than one primary beneficiary. Account holders also can designate the percentage of assets that will go to each primary beneficiary.

The beneficiaries of such accounts inherit the assets immediately upon the account holder's death, without going through probate court and regardless of the dictates of the account holder's will.

In many types of retirement plans, account holders need to secure their spouse's written permission before they can name someone else as the primary beneficiary.

The defination and meaning of Primary company is In a reinsurance transaction, the insurance company that is reinsured.

The defination and meaning of Primary Dealer is A designation given by the Federal Reserve System to commercial banks or broker/dealers who meet specific criteria. Among the criteria are capital requirements and meaningful participation in the Treasury auctions.

The defination and meaning of Primary Market is Market of new issues of securities.

The defination and meaning of Primary Market is Where firms sell new financial assets typically with the assistance of an investment banker.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Primary Policy is The insurance policy that pays first when you have a loss that's covered by more than one policy.

The defination and meaning of Prime Rate is Interest rate charged by major banks to their most creditworthy customers.

The defination and meaning of Prime Rate is The interest rate that banks charge their "best" clients,  i.e. those with the lowest possibility of default.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Prime Rate Fund is Mutual fund that attempts to match the return of the prime rate, by investing in high quality corporate debt.

The defination and meaning of Principal is The original amount invested is called the principal amount
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Principal is Another name for the obligor, the person bonded, in a fidelity or security bond.

The defination and meaning of Principal Trade is A trade when a Participating Organization is either buying from, or selling to its client.

The defination and meaning of Principal value is The original amount invested by the client.

The defination and meaning of Principle of indemnity is A doctrine that limits the amount that an insured may collect to the actual cash value of the property insured.

The defination and meaning of Priority is If there are several orders competing for a stock at the same price, a priority determines when one of these orders will be filled before any other at this price. Priority is based on the time at which the order is received into the system.

The defination and meaning of Private insurance is Insurance coverage written by firms in the private sector of the economy (as opposed to government insurers).

The defination and meaning of Private Placement is The private offering of a security to a small group of buyers. Resale of the security is limited. See Best Efforts and Bought Deal Underwriting.

The defination and meaning of Private ruling is Ruling granted by the tax authorities to a single taxpayer, usually with respect to a single transaction or series of transactions. Normally the ruling can be relied upon only by the taxpayer to whom it is issued, not by other taxpayers, and is binding upon the tax authority provided all relevant facts have been disclosed.

The defination and meaning of Private treaty is The most common method of disposal of real property, in which negotiations are carried out between the vendor and prospective purchasers (or their respective agents) privately and in comparative secrecy, normally without any limit on the time within which they must be completed, before contracts are exchanged.

The defination and meaning of Privilege (diplomatic) is Under the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements, diplomatic agents and consular officers are in most cases exempt from tax in the state to which they are seconded. Many tax treaties include a clause that the right to tax income arising from outside the state is reserved to the sending state.

The defination and meaning of Privileged tax regime is Euphemism for the tax regime of a tax haven.

The defination and meaning of Pro Forma Earnings is Earnings without considering certain expenses such as inventory write downs, severance pay, depreciation and amortization charges, or just about anything else the company feels like excluding to make its earnings look better. Also known as core earnings, ongoing earnings, earnings excluding special items, or operating earnings.

The defination and meaning of Pro rata rule is Under most VAT systems, a credit for part of the input tax is allowed for VAT previously paid on goods and services when they are used in taxable and exempt (without credit) transactions and total transactions occurring during a calendar year.

The defination and meaning of Pro-rata clause is A clause that requires each insurer covering a risk to share prorata any losses, in the proportion that its particular coverage bears to the total coverage on the risk.

The defination and meaning of Pro-rata treaties is Reinsurance agreements under which premiums and losses are shared in some stated proportion.

The defination and meaning of Probability Density Function is A graph showing the probability of occurrence of a particular data point (price).

The defination and meaning of Probate is A court process under which property is distributed and the terms of the will are carried out at the owner?s death.

The defination and meaning of Probate Costs is The legal fees and other costs incurred in the probate process, which is the legal processing of your will. Assets that you leave to other people through your will cannot be disturbed until the will is probated.

The defination and meaning of Producer Price Index (PPI) is An index that shows the cost of resources needed to produce manufactured goods during the previous month.

The defination and meaning of Product liability is A section of tort law that determines who may sue and who may be sued for damages when a defective product injures someone.

The defination and meaning of Product liability insurance is Protects manufacturers? and distributors? exposure to lawsuits by people who have sustained bodily injury or property damage through the use of the product.

The defination and meaning of Production is The selling function in insurer opera-tions.

The defination and meaning of Professional liability is Liability that arises out of the error of a professional person in performance of his or her duties.

The defination and meaning of Professional liability insurance is Covers professionals for negligence and errors or omissions that injure their clients.

The defination and meaning of Profit is What is left over for the owners of a business after all expenses have been deducted from revenues. Gross profit is the profit before corporate income taxes. Net profit is the final profit of the business after taxes have been paid.

The defination and meaning of Profit Margin is Bottom line (after tax) earnings divided by sales.

The defination and meaning of Profit Margin Expansion is In long-term reference, a measure of a company's net profit margin in the latest reported quarter divided by profit margin in the fiscal year previous. In short-term reference, a measure of a company's net profit margin in the latest reported quarter divided by profit margin in the quarter immediately preceding.

The defination and meaning of Profit ratio is Term used to denote the ratio of profits of an enterprise to its capital or net worth, and sometimes used as a basis for taxation.

The defination and meaning of Profit shifting is Allocation of income and expenses between related corporations or branches of the same legal entity (e.g. by using transfer pricing) in order to reduce the overall tax liability of the group or corporation.

The defination and meaning of Profit Taking is Selling tradables that have appreciated since initial purchase in order to take advantage of the appreciation.

The defination and meaning of Profit-Sharing Plan Definition is Under a profit-sharing retirement plan, employers can choose each year how much -- if anything -- they will contribute to their employees' separate accounts, which are tax-deferred. 

Once a contribution amount is declared, employers must follow whatever set formula is spelled out in their plan for distributing it. Distributions commonly are weighted so that employees with higher pay get more.

Care is in order, though. Profit-sharing plans are subject to top-heavy testing rules that allow the Internal Revenue Service to punish plans that grant too much participation to the highest-paid owners and employees.

Profit-sharing plans were once commonly combined with money purchase plans, which gave companies the benefit of high contribution limits and a degree of flexibility in determining the amount of each year's contributions. In recent years, though, contribution limits have risen significantly for much simpler types of plans, removing most of the advantage from the money plan/profit-sharing combination.

The defination and meaning of Profits insurance is Coverage for the loss of the profit element in goods already manufactured but destroyed before they could be sold.

The defination and meaning of Profits tax is Tax imposed on business profits in addition to ordinary income tax or as distinct from income tax imposed on other forms of income.

The defination and meaning of Program Trading is Trades based on signals from computer programs. These are usually entered directly from the traders computer to the market's computer system. Program trading accounts for an increasingly larger and larger portion of all trades throughout the day. Additionally, these large trades may be hedged by an offsetting position in index futures.

The defination and meaning of Progression is The rates of individual income tax are usually progressive, i.e. an increasing proportion of income must be paid in tax as the income increases.

The defination and meaning of Project management is The leadership role which plans, budgets, co-ordinates, monitors and controls the operational contributions of property professionals, and others, in a project involving the development of land in accordance with a client's objectives in terms of quality, cost and time.

The defination and meaning of Promissory note is An unconditional written promise to pay a specified sum of money on demand or at a specified date to, or to the order of, a specified person, or to
bearer. Promissory notes are negotiable instruments and perform more or less the same function as an accepted bill of exchange.

The defination and meaning of Promissory warranty is An assurance that a certain condition, fact, or circumstance will be true for the entire term of a contract.

The defination and meaning of Property coverages is Insurance lines designed to cover perils that may destroy property.

The defination and meaning of Property investment trust is A public company, having certain tax advantages and complying with rules applicable to its operation and investment activities, managed by a professional specialist team and established for the purpose of acquiring mainly shares in property companies-public or private. To such an extent, as is permitted legally, without prejudicing its beneficial tax treatment, it may invest in other securities, own property directly or undertake development. It provides shareholders with an interest in a wide ranging portfolio and the reassuring knowledge that investment policy is in the hands of experts.

The defination and meaning of Property management is The range of functions concerned with looking after buildings, including collection of rents, payment of outgoings, maintenance including repair, provision of services, insurance and supervision of staff employed for services, together with negotiations with tenants or prospective tenants. The extent of and responsibility for management between landlord and tenant depend on terms of the lease(s). The landlord may delegate some or all of these functions to managing agents.

The defination and meaning of Property portfolio management is The unified management of a group of properties which are held in one ownership. Decisions taken in respect of any issue are reached on the basis of achieving the maximum benefit for the owners, having regard to the effect on the portfolio as a whole rather than on an individual property.

The defination and meaning of Property tax is Group of taxes imposed on property owned by individuals and businesses based on the assessed value of each property.

The defination and meaning of Property/casualty insurance is Covers damage to or loss of policyholders? property and legal liability for damages caused to other people or their property. Property/casualty insurance, which includes auto, homeowners and commercial insurance, is one segment of the insurance industry. The other sector is life/health. Property/casualty insurance is referred to as non-life or general insurance.

The defination and meaning of Proposal Form is The form that is used to take an insurance policy.

The defination and meaning of Proposer is Proposer is a person who proposes the insurance policy.

The defination and meaning of Prospect is A potential new customer who can be approached for buying an insurance policy.

The defination and meaning of Prospectus is A legal document describing securities being offered for sale to the public. It must be prepared in accordance with provincial securities commission regulations. Prospectus documents usually disclose pertinent information concerning the company's operations, securities, management and purpose of the offering.

The defination and meaning of Prospectus is Summary of the registration statement providing information to investors on an issue of securities.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Protection and Indemnity (P&I) clause is Marine liability insurance covering ocean-going vessels.

The defination and meaning of Protocol is Signed document containing the points on which agreement has been reached by the negotiating parties preliminary to a final treaty. For tax purposes, a protocol is signed and ratified by the parties in addition to an existing tax treaty. The protocol may be signed simultaneously with the tax treaty or later, and it clarifies, implements or modifies treaty provisions.

The defination and meaning of Provisional assessment is Assessment of tax made before it is possible to make a final assessment which is often based on, for example, estimated figure or the previous year's figures.

The defination and meaning of Provisions is Statements contained in an insurance policy, which explain the benefits, conditions and other features of the insurance contract .

The defination and meaning of Proximate cause is The direct cause of loss; exists if there is no unbroken chain of events leading from one act to a resulting injury or loss.

The defination and meaning of Proxy Statement is Material given to stockholders when the corporation solicits shareholder votes. The proxy statement usually contains details on the corporation's executive compensation plans.

The defination and meaning of Public adjuster is An individual or firm hired by the insured to obtain satisfactory settlement of a loss claim.

The defination and meaning of Public book is The public orders to buy or sell a security which are not market orders.

The defination and meaning of Public Float is The number of issued and outstanding shares of a company, excluding shares held by persons who, individually or in conjunction with other persons, hold 20% or more of the issuer's voting securities.

The defination and meaning of Public insurance is Insurance coverage written by government bodies or operated by private agencies under government supervision and control.

The defination and meaning of Pugree is An Indian term used to describe an interest free security deposit given to landlords which is refundable at the expiry of the lease term to the outgoing tenant by the successive tenant.

The defination and meaning of Pullback is A relatively rapid return, after a breakout, to the boundary area of the preceding pattern. It is usually characterized by light volume.

The defination and meaning of Pulpit is A raised structure adjacent to, or in the center of, the pit or ring at a futures exchange where market reporters, employed by the exchange, record price changes as they occur in the trading pit.

The defination and meaning of Punitive damages is Assessed when it is deemed that the defendant acted in a grossly negligent manner and deserves to have an example made of his or her behaviour so as to discourage others from acting that way. Usually imposed in addition to other damages.

The defination and meaning of Purchase and Sell Statement is A statement sent by a commission house to a customer when his futures or options position has changed, showing the number of contracts bought or sold, the prices at which the contracts were bought or sold, the gross profit or loss, the commission charges, and the net profit or loss on the transaction.

The defination and meaning of Purchase Protection is Purchase Protection insures all purchases made on a card from damage, loss due to fire or theft up to a stipulated amount money.

The defination and meaning of Purchasing Hedge or Long Hedge is Buying futures contracts to protect against a possible price increase of cash commodities that will be purchased in the future. At the time the cash commodities are bought, the open futures position is closed by selling the same number and type of futures contracts as those that were initially purchased. Also referred to as a buying hedge. See Hedging.

The defination and meaning of Pure premium is The portion of an insurance premium that reflects the basic costs of loss, not including over-head or profit.

The defination and meaning of Pure risk is Uncertainty as to whether a loss will occur.

The defination and meaning of Purpose is It refers to the end objective of taking a life insurance cover. For instance, one could take a policy for life cover, tax benefit or as a means of long-term saving.

The defination and meaning of Push-Out is A push-out occurs during a stock split when new shares are forwarded to the registered holders of old share certificates, without the holders having to surrender the old shares. Both the old and new shares have equal value.

The defination and meaning of Put is An option contract that gives the holder the right to sell the underlying security at a specified price for a fixed period of time.

The defination and meaning of Put Option is An option that gives the option buyer the right but not the obligation to sell or “go short” the underlying futures contracts at the strike price on or before the expiration date.

The defination and meaning of Put/Call Ratio is The ratio of put trading volume divided by the call trading volume. For example, a put/call ratio of 0.74 means that for every 100 calls bought, 74 puts were bought. It is a contrary indicator. A reading of 1.0 or more is very bullish as most people think the market is going down. When the majority thinks the market is going to move a certain direction, it usually does the opposite.

The defination and meaning of Pyramid is To increase holdings that an investor has by using the most buying power available in a margin account with paper and real profits.

The defination and meaning of Qualified acceptance is An acceptance which in express terms varies the effect of the bill of exchange as drawn, and may be any of the following:
• Conditional: pays by the acceptor dependent on the fulfilment of a condition.
• Partial: pays part of the amount only for which the bill is drawn.
• Local: pays only at a particular or specified place.
• Qualified as to Time: a bill drawn for two months accepted payable in three months.
• Acceptance by some Drawees only: the holder may refuse to take a qualified acceptance and if they do not obtain an unqualified acceptance they may treat the bill as dishonoured.

The defination and meaning of Qualified Covenant is A restriction contained in a legal document which limits the rights of a person having an interest in the land but, by its wording envisages the possibility of removing the limitation on terms agreed between the parties eg. a covenant by a lessee not to assign or sublet without the landlord's written consent. In certain cases, such as the one quoted, statute law strengthens the applicant's position by importing such words as "such consent not to be unreasonably with-held".

The defination and meaning of Qualified Retirement Plan is A Defined Benefit or Defined Contribution retirement plan that receives special tax treatment because it meets the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code.

The defination and meaning of Qualified Retirement Plan Definition is A qualified retirement plan is one that is allowed certain tax advantages because it meets criteria spelled out in the Internal Revenue Code and in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.

A qualified plan lets employers take tax deductions for any contributions they make to an employee's account. Employee contributions are tax deferred, as is any investment growth, until money is withdrawn. Contribution limits apply to all plans, as do penalties for early withdrawal.

Some of the most common qualified retirement plans include 401(k), profit sharing and 403(b) plans. Some must be set up by employers. Others, such as a traditional individual retirement account or Roth IRA, can be established by individuals.

The defination and meaning of Quant is Also known as a rocket scientist, a quant is someone who is really good at math, computer science and the like and brings those skills to bear in the securities industry. The rise of computers and exotic derivatives on Wall Street is both a cause and an effect of quants. Such tools (along with the big bucks to be made) bring quants to the industry, who in turn create more such tools themselves.

The defination and meaning of Quarantining is In the context of the foreign tax credit system, this term denotes the separate calculation of the foreign tax payable on all foreign income of a particular category which may be credited against the domestic tax payable on that category of foreign income.

The defination and meaning of Quarterly Earnings Change is Historical earnings change between the earnings most recently reported and the quarter preceding.

The defination and meaning of Quarterly Net Profit Margin is Net operating earnings after taxes for the latest quarter divided by revenues for the quarter.

The defination and meaning of Quick Ratio is Indicates a company's financial strength; a company's cash and equivalent divided by current liabilities.

The defination and meaning of Quiet Period is Time after IPO, typically 25 days, when all parties involved in IPO are prohibited from commenting on the company’s future prospects. Analysts employed by underwriters are free to make buy/hold/sell recommendations after the Quiet Period expiration.

The defination and meaning of Quota share treaties is Reinsurance arrangements in which each insurer accepts a certain percentage of premiums and losses in a given line of insurance.

The defination and meaning of Quote is Information on the last trade, and current bid and asked prices. Most quotes are intentionally delayed about 20 minutes.

The defination and meaning of Quote currency is The second currency in a currency pair, for which a client is able to sell/buy a base currency. For instance, in the currency pair USD/JPY, Japanese yen is the quote currency.

The defination and meaning of Quoted Market Value (QMV) is See Market Capitalization.

The defination and meaning of Quote’s feed is Quotations on each security entering the system.

The defination and meaning of Quoting is Providing a client with quotes in order to complete a transaction.

The defination and meaning of R&T Agents is Registrars and transfer agents (R&T agents) handle all paperwork involving investor servicing.

The defination and meaning of R-Squared is R-squared ranges from 0 to 100 and reflects the percentage of a fund's movements that are explained by movements in its benchmark index. An R-squared of 100 means that all movements of a fund are completely explained by movements in the index. Thus, index funds that invest only in S&P 500 stocks will have an R-squared very close to 100. Conversely, a low R-squared indicates that very few of the fund's movements are explained by movements in its benchmark index. An R-squared measure of 35, for example, means that only 35% of the fund's movements can be explained by movements in its benchmark index. Therefore, R-squared can be used to ascertain the significance of a particular beta or alpha. Generally, a higher R-squared will indicate a more useful beta figure. If the R-squared is lower, then the beta is less relevant to the fund's performance.

The defination and meaning of Rack-rent is A rent representing the full, or nearly the full, letting value of a property on a given set of terms and conditions

The defination and meaning of Rally is A brisk rise in the general price level of the market or price of a stock.

The defination and meaning of Rally or Reaction is Price movement in the opposite direction to a stock's overall trend.

The defination and meaning of Rally Reaction is A decline in prices following an advance. The opposite of rally. An upward movement of prices following a decline; the opposite of a reaction.

The defination and meaning of Rally Tops is A price level that concludes a short-term rally in an ongoing trend. A bull market will be made up of a series of rally tops.

The defination and meaning of Random walk theory is A market analysis theory that the past movement or direction of the price of a stock or market cannot be used to predict its future movement or direction.

The defination and meaning of Range is The difference between the high and the low prices recorded over some period. The period can range from minutes to years.

The defination and meaning of Range (Price) is The price span during a given trading session, week, month, year, etc.

The defination and meaning of Rate is The price of one currency expressed in the unit price of another country’s currency.

The defination and meaning of Rate making is The process of developing pricing structures for insurance.

The defination and meaning of Rate Of Return is A measure of investment performance.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Rateable value is The figure upon which property tax is charged in India. This value is determined by the tax authorities and thereafter the tax liability is charged to the owner(s) of the property on the basis of certain pre-determined tax slab rates.

The defination and meaning of Rated is Coverages issued at a higher than standard rate because of some health condition or impairment of the insured.

The defination and meaning of Ratification is A method by which an agent gains authority to write insurance. The agent writes a policy and, after the fact, presents it to the insurance company. If the insurance company approves the policy, the agent?s authority is ratified.

The defination and meaning of Ratio is The relation that one quantity bears to another of the same kind, with respect to magnitude or numerical value.

The defination and meaning of Re-entry Option is An option in a renewable term life policy under which the policy owner is guaranteed at the end of the term, to be able to renew his or her coverage without evidence of insurability at a premium rate specified in the policy.

The defination and meaning of Reaction is A short-term decline in price.

The defination and meaning of Real-Time Quotes is Stock trading price reports that have not been artificially delayed.

The defination and meaning of Realized/Unrealized P/L is The difference between trading revenues that are generated on positions that have been offset and closed, versus those associated with the marking of open positions to current market prices.

The defination and meaning of Reasonable and customary is A test used to judge what expenses an insurance policy will pay. The fee is compared to prevailing fees in the area.

The defination and meaning of Reasonable expectations is An extension of the concept of adhesion, this doctrine makes the proposition that coverage should be interpreted to be what the insured can reasonably expect.

The defination and meaning of Rebate is Term which in certain countries is synonymous with a tax credit.

The defination and meaning of Rebating is A practice, usually prohibited by law or the regulator, in which a sales agent in insurance returns part of the commission to the purchaser.

The defination and meaning of Receipt is A proof or acknowledgement of the deposit that is received by a bank from an investor. This gives various details like the amount, time period, mode of payment of interest, maturity date and so on.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Receivables is Amounts owed to a business for goods or services provided.

The defination and meaning of Recharacterization is The reversal of a Roth IRA conversion or the redesignation of funds between plan types.

The defination and meaning of Reciprocal is A form of insurer owned by policy-holders who exchange coverage with each other; commonly found in the field of automobile insurance.

The defination and meaning of Reciprocal of European Terms is One method of quoting exchange rates, which measured the U.S. dollar value of one foreign currency unit; i.e., U.S. dollars per foreign units. See European Terms.

The defination and meaning of Reciprocity principle is The principle of give-and-take operates in a variety of tax contexts (particularly in the case of tax treaties) where an exchange of tax privileges between countries is desired. Reciprocity is a basis for relieving a taxpayer under domestic law, e.g. relief is granted for foreign tax if the other country gives corresponding or equivalent relief.

The defination and meaning of Reconciliation is The process of matching outstanding credit/debit entries appearing in statements received from overseas correspondent banks/branches to contra entries posted to the relative Nostro account.

The defination and meaning of Record Date is This is the date that a stock must be in your account for you to receive a dividend. The record date has nothing to do with how we trade stock splits.

The defination and meaning of Recourse is The right of a holder of a bill of exchange to demand payment from a person other than the acceptor. Bills may be endorsed ‘without recourse’, in which case the endorser does not become liable to any holder.

The defination and meaning of Recovery of tax is From the taxpayer's point of view, this may mean a refund of tax. From the tax authorities’ point of view, it may mean the collection of tax which is in arrears.

The defination and meaning of Rectangle is A trading area bounded by horizontal, or near horizontal, lines. It can either be a reversal or continuation pattern, depending on the breakout.

The defination and meaning of Recurring Deposit or Cumulative Deposit Account is Under such bank account, a depositor is required to deposit (multiples of Rs 5/ or Rs 10/ are accepted in his account every month. This deposit is usually available from 1 to 5 years. The rate of interest charged by banks on such accounts depends on the period but is better than savings bank account because this account is like a Fixed Deposit Account. Banks introduce such deposit account to inculcate the habit of saving among people by offering higher rate of interest.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Recursive is A process that is repetitive and usually dependent upon the results of the previous repetition.

The defination and meaning of Red clause L/C is A letter of credit provision allowing the beneficiary to draw partial advance payments under the credit. This provision used to be set out in red ink,
therefore the ‘red clause’ designation. Generally, the beneficiary is only required, in order to receive payment of the authorised advances, to present drafts along with a statement that shipping documents will be provided in due time.
Similar to Advance Clause Credits; used mainly in Australia and New Zealand in relation to the export of wool and meat from those countries.

The defination and meaning of Red Herring is This is another name for the preliminary prospectus. This is the offering document printed by the issuer containing a description of the business, discussion of strategy, presentation of historical financial statements, explanation of recent financial results, management and their backgrounds and ownership.

The defination and meaning of Red Herring is A preliminary prospectus.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Redeemable Security is A security that carries a condition giving the issuer a right to call in and retire that security at a certain price and for a certain period of time.

The defination and meaning of Redemption Fee is The commission or charge paid when an investor exits from a mutual fund. They are basically imposed to discourage withdrawals.

The defination and meaning of Redemption Price is The price at which a mutual fund's shares are redeemed (bought back) by the fund. The redemption price is usually equal to the current net asset value per share. Also called the bid, call or sell price.

The defination and meaning of Reduced rates is In many countries the ordinary rates of tax charged under various tax laws may be reduced in particular situations. For example, under tax treaties, reduced withholding tax rates often apply to dividends, interest and royalties.

The defination and meaning of Refinance is Loan or any additional loan financed on an existing property.

The defination and meaning of Refund (of tax) is Tax repaid to a taxpayer

The defination and meaning of Refurbishment is Improvement and modernisation of a building falling short of rebuilding or redevelopment and thus not normally requiring planning permission (other than for alterations to the external appearance), except in the case of listed buildings.

The defination and meaning of Registered Representative is A person employed by, and soliciting business for, a commission house or a broker dealer. Many times referred to as a broker.

The defination and meaning of Registered Traders is A trader employed by a securities firm who is required to maintain reasonable liquidity in securities markets by making firm bids or offers for one or more designated securities up to a specified minimum guaranteed fill.

The defination and meaning of Registrar is They play an administrative role in conducting a public issue. They are responsible for collecting information from the collecting banks and report to the companies and lead managers about the issue collections. They advise the company regarding the closure or extension of closing date of the issue.

The defination and meaning of Registration and mutation is It is mandatory for the sale deed of all high value property transactions to be registered at the regional sub registrar's office of the local municipal authority. Thereafter, the buyer has to apply for mutation, which involves a change in the title records to incorporate the name of the buyer of the property. In order to complete the transfer of property, it is mandatory for the seller to furnish or arrange a valid "certificate of completion" issued from the local municipal authority to the buyer.

The defination and meaning of Registration value is It is the value of the property at which the property is registered. Generally the rates for the value for registration is fixed for specific areas by the authorities in many places.

The defination and meaning of regression is method of statistical analysis that measures quantitative correlations between different variables. One method is to weigh hedges (hedge ratios).

The defination and meaning of Reinstatement / Revival is The process by which an insurer puts back into force a life insurance policy that has been terminated for non-payment of premiums or a life insurance policy that has been continued as an extended term or reduced paid-up insurance.

The defination and meaning of Reinstatement clause is A contract in life insurance that allows a policy that has lapsed to be reinstated.

The defination and meaning of Reinsurance is The shifting of risk by a primary answer (known as the ceding company) to another insurer (known as the reinsurer).

The defination and meaning of Reinsurance pool is Provides reinsurance for a specific class of business.

The defination and meaning of Reinvestment Date (Payable Date) is The date on which a share's dividend and/or capital gains will be reinvested (if requested) in additional fund shares.

The defination and meaning of Reinvestment Privilege is The privilege some mutual funds give to their shareholders to use income or the capital gains to purchase additional shares of their fund without any sales charge.

The defination and meaning of Reinvestment Risk is Risk from uncertainty in the interest rate at which future cash flows may be invested.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of REIT (real estate investment trust) is A special form of corporation that invests primarily in real estate. REITs do not pay federal income taxes as long as they pay out 90% of their earnings to shareholders in the form of dividends.

The defination and meaning of Relative Dividend Yield is dividend yield of a stock compared the dividend yield of the S&P 500.

The defination and meaning of Relative Position Report is A TSX report that ranks each Participating Organization's/Member's trading activity relative to the total market and the other POs/Members. It is produced monthly for each TSX Group PO/Member.

The defination and meaning of Relative Return Standard Deviation is Measures the amount of variability of the relative return. A large relative return standard deviation indicates that the relative return experienced during the holding period fluctuated dramatically and, if the holding period was different, a significantly different relative return would have been achieved. A small relative return standard deviation indicates the opposite.

The defination and meaning of Relative Strength is Price performance of a stock or group of stocks compared to a given norm, such as the Standard & Poor's 500 or the Dow Jones industrial average. A stock moving up 20% when the norm moves only 10% is considered to have good relative strength.

The defination and meaning of relative strength index is (RSI) This indicator was developed by Welles Wilder Jr. Relative Strength is often used to identify price tops and bottoms by keying on specific levels (usually “30? and “70?) on the RSI chart which is scaled from from 0-100. The study is also useful to detect the following:

1.Movement which might not be as readily apparent on the bar chart
2.Failure swings above 70 or below 30 which can warn of coming reversals
3.Support and resistance levels
4.Divergence between the RSI and price which is often a useful reversal indicator
The Relative Strength Index requires a certain amount of lead-up time in order to operate successfully.The formula for calculating the RSI is:

•rsi=100-(100/1-rs)
•rs= average of x day’s up closes divided by average of x day’s down closes

The defination and meaning of Relative strength indicator is A technical analysis tool that attempts to indicate when the market has moved excessively in one direction and is likely to be reversed by a technical reversal.

The defination and meaning of Renewable term is A life insurance policy initially written from a specified number of years and subsequently renewable for similar periods of time.

The defination and meaning of Renewal is As distinct from repair, this is "reconstruction of the entirely meaning not necessarily the whole subject matter".

The defination and meaning of Renewal of deposit is A process whereby the deposit holder continues with the deposit for an additional time period after the completion of the initial time period of investment. The additional period can be similar or different from the original time period. Instead of withdrawing the deposit amount this is continued.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Renewal Premiums is Premiums that are payable after the initial premium and that are a condition for the continuation of the policy.

The defination and meaning of Rent Act (s) is Legislation promulgated by various states in India, which regulates the terms and conditions of the rental market with a view to curb profiteering and hoarding. Though its restrictive nature has not allowed owners to enjoy economic returns from same categories of property, thereby allowing market inefficiencies.

The defination and meaning of Rent free period is An agreed period, usually for several weeks or months, during which a lessee is allowed to occupy the subject premises without payment of rent:

The defination and meaning of Rentable area is The area of floor space for which rent is calculated even though other areas, within or outside the premise, are lawfully used by the tenant. For example, in an office building it is customary to exclude from the direct calculation of rent the space used for corridors, atrium and stairways.

The defination and meaning of Rental advance is Comprises a lump sum payment to the landlord at the beginning of the lease term, which is thereafter adjusted in equal installments over the lease term against the monthly base rental payable by the tenant. The advance amount generally ranges between 3 to 18 months depending on the city, type, location of property and the period of the lease.

The defination and meaning of Rental income is Rents collected from others who occupy property owned by the insured.

The defination and meaning of Rental value is Consequential coverage that insures the loss of rents in the event of the destruction of the insured property.

The defination and meaning of Renters insurance is A form of insurance that covers a policyholder?s belongings against perils such as fire, theft, windstorm, hail, explosion, vandalism, riots, and others. It also provides personal liability coverage for damage the policyholder or dependents cause to third parties. It also provides additional living expenses, known as loss-of-use coverage, if a policy-holder must move while his or her dwelling is repaired.

The defination and meaning of Repayment is This is the action of giving the original amount that is invested back to the investor when the specified time period is over. The process of repayment will complete the entire fixed deposit cycle.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Replacement is A new policy written to take the place of one currently in force.

The defination and meaning of Replacement cost is Insurance that pays the amount needed to replace damaged personal property or dwelling property without deducting for depreciation but limited by the maximum amount shown on the declarations page of the policy.

The defination and meaning of Repo Rate  is The rate at which the RBI lends money to commercial banks is called repo rate.
Repo Rate

The defination and meaning of Representation is A statement made by an applicant for insurance, before the contract is made, which affects the willingness of the insurer to accept the risk.

The defination and meaning of Repurchase Agreements or (Repo) is An agreement between a seller and a buyer, usually in U.S. government securities, in which the seller agrees to buy back the security at a later date.

The defination and meaning of Required Beginning Date (RBD) is The deadline by which an IRA owner must take his or her first Required Minimum Distribution. The RBD is April 1 after the year in which the IRA owner turns age 70½.

The defination and meaning of Required Minimum Distribution is A Congressionally-mandated distribution from a qualified retirement plan. Starting with the April 1 after you reach 70.5 years old, you must take annual distributions from your qualified retirement plans, such as your 401(k) and IRA. The amount you must distribute is based on the value of your accounts at the beginning of the year for which you are required to take a distribution. That total is then divided by your life expectancy as determined by the IRS.

Roth IRA accounts are not subject to RMDs. Also, a 401(k) where you are still employed is exempt from RMDs.

Failure to take a RMD results in a 50% penalty.

The defination and meaning of Required Minimum Distribution (RMD) is The minimum dollar amount an IRA owner must withdraw each year beginning when he or she reaches age 70½, as required by the IRS.

The defination and meaning of Requisites of insurable risks is From the view of the insurer, there must be a sufficient number of similar objects, the loss must be accidental and measurable, and the objects must not be subject to simultaneous destruction. From the view of the insured, the potential loss must be large enough to cause financial hard-ship, and the probability of loss must not be too high.

The defination and meaning of Res ipsa loquitur is ?The thing speaks for itself? - a legal doctrine that enables a plaintiff to collect for losses without proving negligence on the part of the defendant.

The defination and meaning of Research and Development (R&D) is Costs of developing new products and services.

The defination and meaning of Reserve Requirements is The minimum amount of cash and liquid assets as a percentage of demand deposits and time deposits that member banks of the Federal Reserve are required to maintain.

The defination and meaning of Reserves is A company?s best estimate of what it will pay for claims.

The defination and meaning of Residence principle of taxation is Principle according to which residents of a country are subject to tax on their worldwide income and non-residents are only subject to tax on domestic-source income.

The defination and meaning of Resident is A person who is liable for tax in a country or state because of domicile, residence, place of management, or other similar criterion.

The defination and meaning of Resident alien is A person is said to be a resident alien of a country if he resides in that country but is a citizen of another country.

The defination and meaning of Residual Value is The standard deviation of the unexplained portion of the monthly return.

The defination and meaning of Resistance is This is a level where a stock has a difficult time moving through. Resistance levels can be caused by former tops, breakout prices, moving averages, or just price levels where a stock has spent a lot of time in the past. When choosing buy levels, we watch for a stock to break through resistance on good volume. That indicates the move through the resistance is strong, and that the stock will most likely stay above that resistance. In such situations, former resistance then becomes support. When we take a position coming off of support, we always look for resistance levels as points where we may encounter resistance so we do not lose gains we have banked if resistance proves too much.

The defination and meaning of Resistance Line is On a chart, a line drawn indicating the price level at which rising prices have stopped rising and have moved sideways or reversed direction.

The defination and meaning of Respondeat superior is A legal doctrine under which a principal is responsible for the acts of his or her agent.

The defination and meaning of Response is The change in value of the average in response to the impulse.

The defination and meaning of Responsible Registered Trader is The Registered Trader assigned by the Selection Committee to act as market maker in a security. Their duties include providing a minimum guaranteed fill, maintaining minimum spread and ensuring orderly trading.

The defination and meaning of Resting Order is An order placed with a condition or qualifer but not yet executed.

The defination and meaning of Restricted stock plan is A stock option plan under which the transferred stock option is subject to restrictions regarding transferability and to substantial risk of forfeiture. Restricted stock is includable in the gross income of the employee in the first taxable year in which the rights become transferable or no longer subject to forfeiture.

The defination and meaning of Resumption is The reopening the following day of specific futures and options markets that also trade during the evening session at the Chicago Board of Trade.

The defination and meaning of Retail Individual Investor is Retail individual investor’ means an investor who applies or bids for securities of or for a value of not more than Rs.1, 00,000.

The defination and meaning of Retail sales tax is Single-stage tax on the sale of goods to ultimate consumers, whether by retailers or other traders.

The defination and meaning of Retained earnings is The portion of a corporation's after-tax profits that is not distributed to the shareholders, but rather is reinvested in the business.

The defination and meaning of Retention is The amount of risk retained by an insurance company that is not reinsured.

The defination and meaning of retracement is A reversal in the movement of a stock’s price counter to the prevailing trend.

The defination and meaning of Retractable Security is A security that features an option for the holder to require the issuer to redeem it, subject to specified terms and conditions.

The defination and meaning of Retroactive effect is The effect of tax law provision towards the past, which is allowed only to the advantage of a taxpayer.

The defination and meaning of Retrocession is The reinsurance bought by reinsurers to protect their financial stability.

The defination and meaning of Retrospective rating is A method of permitting the final premium for a risk to be adjusted, subject to an agreedupon maximum and minimum limit based on actual loss experience. It is available to large commercial insurance buyers.

The defination and meaning of Return is Declaration of income, sales and other details made by or on behalf of the taxpayer. Forms are often provided by the tax authorities for this purpose.

The defination and meaning of Return of capital is A distribution that is not paid out of the earnings and profits of a corporation. Rather, it is a return of the shareholder's investment in the stock of the company.

The defination and meaning of Return on Assets is The net earnings of a company divided by its assets.

The defination and meaning of Return on Capital (return on invested capital) is After tax income (latest 12 months) divided by total of shareholder’s equity plus long term debt, plus other long term liabilities.

The defination and meaning of Return on Equity is The net earnings of a company divided by its equity.

The defination and meaning of Revaluation is Daily calculation of potential profits or losses on open positions based on the difference between the settlement price of the previous trading day and the current trading day.

The defination and meaning of Revenue is The total amount of funds generated by a business.

The defination and meaning of Revenue neutrality is Constraints on tax reform that it should not change revenues available to government in any significant way.

The defination and meaning of Reversal is A shift in the direction of price movement caused by a change in demand and/or supply. Generally the longer the reversal pattern takes to develop, the more serious its implications.

The defination and meaning of Reversal Gap is A chart formation where the low of the last day is completely above the previous day's range with the close above midrange and above the open.

The defination and meaning of Reversal Stop is A stop that, when hit, is a signal to reverse the current trading position, i.e., from long to short. Also known as stop and reverse.

The defination and meaning of Reverse Crush Spread is The sale of soybean futures and the simultaneous purchase of soybean oil and meal futures. See Crush Spread.

The defination and meaning of Reverse Exponential Moving Average is An exponential moving average computed working backward through the time series, rather than forward, as is the case with a standard EMA. A REMA is used so the target would reflect only future price behavior, not past action that would induce spurious correlation.

The defination and meaning of Reverse Repo rate is Reverse Repo rate is the rate at which the RBI borrows money from commercial banks.

The defination and meaning of Reverse Stock Split is This is where a company reduces the number of outstanding shares by decreasing the number of available shares and combining their value into the fewer shares. This has the effect of increasing the stock's par value. This is often used by companies whose stock is about to be delisted from an exchange because of its low price.

The defination and meaning of Reverse Takeover (RTO)/Backdoor Listing is A transaction or series of transactions that includes a securities issuance made by a listed issuer to parties vending securities or other assets into the listed issuer (the new security's holders), such that after completion of the transaction(s), the new security's holders will own more than 50% of the outstanding voting securities of the listed issuer, with an accompanying change of control of the listed issuer. A reverse takeover (RTO)/backdoor listing can be completed through various transactions, including a business or asset acquisition, an amalgamation, a plan of arrangement, or other form of reorganization. The listing of securities of an issuer formed in accordance with an RTO/backdoor listing is treated as a new listing.

The defination and meaning of Revocable beneficiary is A life insurance beneficiary designation that may be changed by the owner.

The defination and meaning of Revocable documentary credit is As the name implies, the fundamental difference between this type of instrument and an irrevocable credit is that it can be modified or cancelled by the issuing bank (possibly on request from importer/applicant) without consent of the beneficiary.

The defination and meaning of Revolver is Revolver is the term banks that issue cards use for card holders who roll over part of the bill to the next month, instead of paying off the balance in full. It is estimated that seven out of ten card holders revolve the debt and are thereby called "good or smart revolvers".

The defination and meaning of Revolving credit is Is one in which, after notice of drawing against it is received by the issuing bank, the balance available for drawing again reverts back or ‘revolves’ to its original amount, providing the credit has not expired in the meantime.

The defination and meaning of Revolving Line Of Credit is Card issuing banks lend a specific sum of money to a card holder and allow that sum to be borrowed again once it has been repaid. Most credit cards offer revolving credit.

The defination and meaning of Reward Points is To encourage frequent usage of cards, the card companies introduced the concept of reward points. For Citibank card holders, every 100 rupees worth of purchases made through the card, the card older gains one point. These points could be redeemed for gifts, select product purchases and even for paying the annual fees. So every point would be equivalent to one rupee.

The defination and meaning of Reward-Risk Rank is Stocks ranked in descending order by reward-risk ratio.

The defination and meaning of Reward-Risk Ratio is Monthly excess return to risk comparison, calculated by dividing alpha by standard deviation. (A ratio better than 0.4 is excellent.)

The defination and meaning of Rider is An attachment to an insurance policy that alters the policy?s coverage or terms.

The defination and meaning of Right of survivorship is Ownership of property automatically transfers to surviving owners when one of the owners dies.

The defination and meaning of Rights is A temporary privilege that lets shareholders purchase additional shares directly from the issuer at a stated price. The price is usually less than the market price of the common shares on the day the rights are issued. The rights are only valid within a given time period.

The defination and meaning of Rights Issue is In order to avoid dilution of stake of existing shareholders, company issues "rights" shares in proportion to their current holding. This is done when the company plans to tap the market after their IPO.

The defination and meaning of Ring fence is Theoretical enclosure established by tax legislation around certain profits, losses, transactions or groups of transactions in order to isolate them for tax purposes.

The defination and meaning of Risk is The measure of an investor's ability to withstand volatility in the markets. Investors with a near-term focus are likely to be more conservative than those with a long-term viewpoint who can benefit from the market's fluctuations by taking advantage of compounding and historical growth of the markets.

The defination and meaning of Risk Factors is The disclosure of the issuer’s management to give its view on the Internal and external risks faced by the company. Here, the company also makes a note on the forward-looking statements. This information is disclosed in the initial pages of the document and it is also clearly disclosed in the abridged prospectus. It is generally advised that the investors should go through all the risk factors of the company before making an investment decision.

The defination and meaning of Risk management is The employment of financial analysis and use of trading techniques to reduce and/or control exposure to financial risk.

The defination and meaning of Risk management policy is A plan, procedure, or rule of action followed for the purpose of securing consist-ent action over a period of time.

The defination and meaning of Risk management process is (1) Identify risks; (2) evaluate risks as to frequency and severity; (3) select risk management techniques; and (4) implement and review decisions.

The defination and meaning of Risk manager is An individual charged with minimizing the adverse impact of losses on the achievement of a company?s goals.

The defination and meaning of Risk mapping (risk profiling) is Method of risk identification and assessment by arranging all risks in a matrix reflecting frequency, severity, and existing insurance coverage.

The defination and meaning of Risk Neutrality is A theoretical condition where investors require no compensation for taking risk.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Risk reduction is A decrease in the total amount of uncertainty present in a particular situation.

The defination and meaning of Risk retention is Handling risk by bearing the results of risk, rather than employing other methods of handling it, such as transfer or avoidance.

The defination and meaning of Risk Selection is The method a home office underwriter uses to choose applicants that the insurance company will accept. The underwriter use to choose applicants that the insurance company will accept.

The defination and meaning of Risk transfer is A risk management technique whereby one party (transferor) pays another (transferee) to assume a risk that the transferor desires to escape.

The defination and meaning of Risk-based capital is The need for insurance compa-nies to be capitalized according to the inherent riski-ness of the type of insurance they sell. Higher-risk types of insurance, liability as opposed to property business, generally necessitate higher levels of capital.

The defination and meaning of Road Show is The process by which underwriters acquaint potential institutional investors with the products, people and finances of a company planning to go public. Generally, this presentation is a face-to-face meeting. However they are emerging on online and video presentations.

The defination and meaning of Robbery is Unlawful taking of property from another person by force, threat of force, or violence.

The defination and meaning of Roll is Substituting a far option for a near option on the same underlying instrument at the same strike price; also to roll forward or roll over.

The defination and meaning of Roll-over is The extension of a maturing foreign exchange transaction or the extension of a maturing currency deposit or loan.

The defination and meaning of Rolle-over is The process of extending the settlement value date on an open position forward to the next valid value date.

The defination and meaning of Rollover is A tax-free movement of funds from one tax-qualified plan to another or to an IRA. The requirements for a rollover depend on the type of program from which the distribution is made and the type of program receiving the distribution.

The defination and meaning of Rollover IRA is An IRA established to hold the assets of an eligible distribution from a qualified plan.

The defination and meaning of Rollover Option is At redemption, some funds offer investors the option of reinvesting the amount. An investor happy with the fund's performance may opt to continue.

The defination and meaning of Rollover relief is Relief by means of which liability to capital gains tax is deferred. The essential feature of roll-over relief is that a gain which would otherwise have arisen on the occurrence of a taxable event for capital gains tax purposes is deferred, or rolled over, until there is a subsequent  disposal of the asset concerned.

The defination and meaning of Root Mean Square Percentage Error is Square root of the average sum of squared errors experessed as a percentage.

The defination and meaning of Rotation is Moving funds from one sector to another sector of the stock market as the business cycle unfolds.

The defination and meaning of Roth IRA is A type of IRA established under the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997. The Roth IRA is sometimes referred to as the 'back-ended' IRA since contributions are not tax-deductible, but the earnings may be withdrawn tax-free if IRS guidelines are met.

The defination and meaning of Roth IRA Conversion is The distribution of assets from a Traditional IRA into a Roth IRA.

The defination and meaning of Round trip transaction is Potential transfer pricing abuse where intangible property is developed by a parent company which licenses it to a related party manufacturer located in a low-tax jurisdiction. The manufactured goods are resold to the parent for distribution to ultimate consumers.

The defination and meaning of Round-Turn (futures) is Procedure by which a long or short position is offset by an opposite transaction or by accepting or making delivery of the actual financial instrument or physical commodity.

The defination and meaning of Royalties is Payments of any kind received as consideration for the use of, or the right to use intellectual property, such as a copyright, patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process.

The defination and meaning of RSI is Relative Strength Index is an overbought/oversold indicator that attempts to predict trend reversal points. RSI is based on the observation that a stock which is advancing will tend to close nearer to the high of the day than the low. The reverse is true for declining stocks. This indicator can also be used when comparing two different equities on a relative basis. RSI's absolute levels are 0 and 100. Buy signals are triggered at 30, and sell signals are triggered at 70. One of the important aspects of RSI is to look for divergence between price action and RSI. Upward sloping price and downward sloping RSI should be taken as a warning.

The defination and meaning of Ruling is Decisions or opinions of the tax authorities in respect of actual fact situations which come before it as part of an assessment procedure or in response to taxpayer questions.

The defination and meaning of Runners is Messengers who rush orders received by phone clerks to brokers for execution in the pit.

The defination and meaning of Running Market is A market wherein prices are changing rapidly in one direction with very few or no price changes in the opposite direction.

The defination and meaning of Running Total is Each day's value is added to yesterday's total or subtracted if the value is negative.

The defination and meaning of Rupee-Cost Averaging is A system of investing in which individual re-invests money into the same mutual fund on a regular basis, usually monthly.

The defination and meaning of Safe harbour is Where tax authorities give general guidelines on the interpretation of tax laws, these may state that transactions falling within a certain range will be accepted by the tax authorities without further questions.

The defination and meaning of Sale Agreement is It is an agreement which is entered into between the parties for dealing with the property and which creates a right to obtain a sale deed mentioning the property. Normally it fixes a time for completion, payment of earnest money or part payment of purchase consideration. Generally it is a document that precedes a sale deed and in such cases does not require registration and will also not confer any charge or right on the property. However in some states the sale agreement itself will be registered and will act as a sale deed.

The defination and meaning of Sale and leaseback is An arrangement whereby a freeholder or lessee sells his interest in a property for an agreed sum and takes back a lease on the whole or part of the property from the purchaser, generally either at a rack rent or at some lesser rent related to the price paid.

The defination and meaning of Sale Deed is It is an instrument in writing which transfers the ownership of the property or properties in exchange for a price paid/consideration. This is a document that requires to be registered compulsorily.

The defination and meaning of Sales is Services and products sold by a company. Sales and revenues mean the same thing.

The defination and meaning of Sales Charge is Fees paid to a brokerage house by a buyer of shares in a load mutual fund.

The defination and meaning of Sales Growth is The growth in sales in a company.

The defination and meaning of Sales Load is A service charge of a mutual fund that is added to the costs of owning a stake in the fund.

The defination and meaning of Sales per Share is Annual sales divided by the number of shares outstanding.

The defination and meaning of Sales tax is Tax imposed as a percentage of the price of goods (and sometimes services). The tax is generally paid by the buyer but the seller is responsible for collecting and remitting the tax to the tax authorities.

The defination and meaning of Salvage is Damaged property an insurer takes over to reduce its loss after paying a claim. Insurers receive salvage rights over property on which they have paid claims, such as badly-damaged cars. Insurers that paid claims on cargoes lost at sea now have the right to recover sunken treasures. Salvage charges are the costs associated with recovering that property.

The defination and meaning of Same Store Sales is Sales at retail stores or restaurants open at least one year. A chain’s same store sales growth excludes gains due to increases in the number of stores. Same store sales growth in the 5 percent to 10 percent range is considered good.

The defination and meaning of SAR is Stop And Reverse. (or Switch and Reverse indicator) (related: Parabolic SAR indicator)

The defination and meaning of Saucer is A gently curved chart formation resembling a saucer. This type of reversal pattern, usually occurring after an extended decline, begins to develop as demand overcomes supply (vice versa for tops). The formation often takes an extended period to complete, occasionally as much as half a year. A similar pattern is traced by the volume, which accompanies it.

The defination and meaning of Savings and Loan Investment Contracts (SLICs) is A negotiated-term deposit issued by a savings and loan.

The defination and meaning of Savings bank account is An account opened with a bank that allows the account holder to deposit and withdraw funds for their requirements. The account pays an interest of 3.5% for the account holder
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Scallop is Chart formation in which the price dips momentarily, forming a cup, before resuming its upward course.

The defination and meaning of Scalp is In commodities, purchasing and selling in equal amounts so there is no net position at the end of the trading day; a speculative attempt to make a quick profit by buying at the initial offering price in the hope the issue will increase and can be sold.

The defination and meaning of Scalper is A trader who trades for small, short-term profits during the course of a trading session, rarely carrying a position overnight.

The defination and meaning of Schedular tax system is Tax system in which income from different sources is taxed separately (i.e. under a different "schedule"); thus, separate tax assessments are made on industrial and commercial profits, wages and salaries, income from securities and shares, income from land, etc.

The defination and meaning of Schedule is A list of individual items or groups of items that are covered under one policy or a listing of specific benefits, charges, credits, assets or other defined items.

The defination and meaning of Screening is Searching the entire universe of mutual funds or stocks meeting user-specified criteria.

The defination and meaning of Seat is The traditional term for membership on a stock exchange. An investment dealer or brokerage buys a seat on the exchange and one employee is designated as the seat holder. As Toronto Stock Exchange is now demutualized, there are no longer seats on the exchange.

The defination and meaning of Second-tier subsidiary is A taxable entity controlled by another taxable entity that is in turn controlled by a third entity.

The defination and meaning of Second-to-die life insurance is Life insurance policy covering two insureds, with proceeds payable only after both persons are dead.

The defination and meaning of Secondary adjustment is An adjustment that arises from imposing tax on a secondary transaction.

The defination and meaning of Secondary Beneficiary is An alternate beneficiary designed to receive payment usually in the event the original beneficiary predeceases the insured.

The defination and meaning of Secondary Distribution Index is An indicator constructed from the number of secondary distributions of stock occurring in a given period. Increased secondary activity creates additional supply and is seen as bearish for the market.

The defination and meaning of Secondary Market is Market where previously issued securities are bought and sold.

The defination and meaning of Secondary Offering is Public sale of previously issued securities held by large investors, usually corporations or institutions.

The defination and meaning of Secondary Offering Financing is The dollar value of secondary offering securities issued in accordance with a TSX or TSX Venture Exchange approved transaction. It is the stated prospectus price multiplied by the "number of securities issued under the offering plus the over allotment".

The defination and meaning of Secret comparable is A term used in the transfer pricing context. It denotes a comparable whose data is not disclosed to the public or the taxpayer but known only to the tax authority which is making the transfer pricing adjustment.

The defination and meaning of Sector Fund is An equity scheme that invests in shares of companies operating in specific sector or industries is called a sector fund. For instance, a pharma fund would invest only in pharmaceutical companies.

The defination and meaning of Sector Funds is mutual funds specializing in a particular industry sector such as computers, or health care.

The defination and meaning of Sector Rotation is When a block of investment professionals cash out of one industry sector to invest in another.

The defination and meaning of Secular Trend is The trend that encompasses two or more cyclical trends or two or more economic cycles and often last 10 to 20 years or longer.

The defination and meaning of Secured card is When a credit card holder guarantees payment to the bank by providing it with his Savings deposit details to ensure payment of the outstanding balance, it is called a secured card. Secured cards are used by people new to the credit game of credit cards or by those who are trying to rebuild their poor credit ratings.

The defination and meaning of Securities is Transferable certificates of ownership of investment products such as notes, bonds, stocks, futures contracts and options.

The defination and meaning of Securities Commission is Each province has a securities commission or administrator that oversees the provincial securities act. This act is a set of laws and regulations that set down the rules under which securities may be issued or traded in that province.

The defination and meaning of Securities outstanding is Stock held by sharehold-ers.

The defination and meaning of Securitization of insurance risk is Using the capital markets to expand and diversify the assumption of insurance risk. The issuance of bonds or notes to third-party investors directly or indirectly by an insur-ance or reinsurance company or a pooling entity as a means of raising money to cover risks.

The defination and meaning of Security is Common or preferred stock; a bond of a corporation, government, or quasi government body.

The defination and meaning of Security deposit is Comprises of an interest free lump sum payment to the landlord at the commencement of the lease, which is refundable at the end of the lease term. Though the deposit amount varies depending on city, property type, location and the period of the lease, it may range anywhere between 6 to 18 months of monthly rental. It is not uncommon for some landlords to provide a bank guarantee to the tenant as security for the repayment of the initial deposit amount.

The defination and meaning of Security Selection Ratio is The percentage of trades in a given account that liquidate profitably.

The defination and meaning of Seed Stock is The shares or stock sold by a company to provide start-up capital before carrying out an initial public offering (IPO).

The defination and meaning of Self-assessment is System under which the taxpayer is required to declare the basis of his assessment (e.g. taxable income), to submit a calculation of the tax due and, usually, to accompany his calculation with payment of the amount he regards as due. The role of tax authorities is to check (perhaps in random cases) that the taxpayer has correctly disclosed his income.

The defination and meaning of Self-directed IRA is An IRA that allows the individual to select the investment options that best fit their investment objectives. The investment choices include stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other funds and other investment vehicles, Certificate of Deposits and other savings vehicles.

The defination and meaning of Self-insurance is The concept of assuming a financial risk oneself, instead of paying an insurance company to take it on. Every policyholder is a self-insurer in terms of paying a deductible and co-payments. Also, a special form of risk etention in which a firm can establish a fund to pay for losses because it has a group of exposure units large enough to reduce risk and thereby predict losses.

The defination and meaning of Sell Limit order is An order to execute a transaction only at a specified price (the limit) or higher.

The defination and meaning of Sell Side Analyst is An analyst employed by a brokerage house such as Merrill Lynch.

The defination and meaning of Selling Group is A group of broker/dealers that helps an underwriting syndicate distribute securities of a public offering.

The defination and meaning of Selling Hedge or Short Hedge is Selling futures contracts to protect against possible declining prices of commodities that will be sold in the future. At the time the cash commodities are sold, the open futures position is closed by purchasing an equal number and type of futures contracts as those that were initially sold. See Hedging.

The defination and meaning of Selling Short is Selling a security and then borrowing the security for delivery with the intent of replacing the security at a lower price. In futures trading, selling short is to assume the responsibility of the seller vs. the buyer in the establishment of the futures contract between parties.

The defination and meaning of Sensitivity is The rate of change of the moving average in response to the movement of the underlying data. The most sensitive period is that in which the rate of change of the moving average is fastest in response to changes in the sinewave.

The defination and meaning of Sentiment Indicators is Indicators which attempt to gauge individual investor and/or professional attitudes toward the market. Monitoring the degree of optimism or pessimism present is a major tenet of technical analysis. Two examples are the amount of shorting being done and the number of advisory services which are bearish or bullish.

The defination and meaning of Separate taxation is Separate taxation is a method of taxing a married couple on the basis of their joint income. It is mandatory in some countries and optional in others. Upon exercising an option for separate taxation, a husband and wife are treated as separate individuals for the purpose of computing income tax.

The defination and meaning of Serial Correlation is The systematic relationship between successive observation of a time series.

The defination and meaning of Serially Independent is A number that is unrelated to the previous number in a given series in any way.

The defination and meaning of Series is All option contracts of the same class that also have the same unit of trade, expiration date and strike price.

The defination and meaning of Series Fund is A mutual fund whose prospectus allows for more than one portfolio. Portfolios may be specialized (Sector Fund) or broad (growth stock, along with a money market portfolio). Management can create additional portfolios as it sees fit.

The defination and meaning of Service Fee is The fee that is charged by the credit card issuer on services offered like cash advance, teledraft, etc.

The defination and meaning of Serviced accommodation is Suites of offices or rooms where the landlord provides a range of services within the individual premises extending beyond the traditional ones associated with the maintenance and management of the building itself or the operation and maintenance of the installation or plant therein eg. furniture, telephone, fax machine, room cleaning, and/or provides centralised specialised services, such as a receptionist and secretarial and communication facilities.

The defination and meaning of Settle is The closing price for the day.

The defination and meaning of Settlement is The price at which all outstanding positions in a stock or commodity are marked to market. Typically, the closing price.

The defination and meaning of Settlement Date is The date when a securities buyer must pay for a purchase or a seller must deliver the securities sold. Settlement must be made on or before the third business day following the transaction date in most cases.

The defination and meaning of Settlement Price is The last price paid for a commodity on any trading day. The exchange clearinghouse determines a firm's net gains or losses, margin requirements, and the next day's price limits, based on each futures and options contract settlement price. If there is a closing range of prices, the settlement price is determined by averaging those prices. Also referred to as settle or closing price.

The defination and meaning of Settlement Price (futures) is A figure determined by the closing range that is used to calculate gains and losses in futures market accounts. Settlement prices are used to determine gains, losses, margin calls, and invoice prices for deliveries.

The defination and meaning of Settlement Risk is Risk from possible default by a counterparty at the time an obligation is to be settled.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Severity is Size of a loss. One of the criteria used in calculating premiums rates

The defination and meaning of Severity reduction is A method of loss control that will reduce the seriousness and extent of damage should a loss occur.

The defination and meaning of Shading is A request to narrow, or close up, the spread or margin between foreign currency buying and selling rates of exchange.

The defination and meaning of Sham transaction is A transaction without substance, which will be ignored for tax purposes.

The defination and meaning of Shapiro-Wilkes Test is A statistical test indicating the likelihood that the sample of simulated net returns was drawn from a normal distribution. A small value of this statistic leads to nonacceptance of the null hypothesis that the sample is drawn from a normal distribution.

The defination and meaning of Share Certificate is A paper certificate that represents the number of shares an investor owns.

The defination and meaning of Shareholder is Any person who owns shares of a company's stock.

The defination and meaning of Shareholder of Record is Share owner of company stock as registered in company files.

The defination and meaning of Shareholders Equity is The difference between the total of assets and liabilities shown on a company’s balance sheet. Book value is the shareholders equity divided by the number of outstanding shares.

The defination and meaning of Shares outstanding is The total number of shares issued by a corporation.

The defination and meaning of Sharpe Ratio is The Sharpe ratio, provided by Lipper, is based on a risk-adjusted measure developed by Nobel Laureate William Sharpe. It is calculated using standard deviation and excess return to determine reward per unit of risk. First, the average monthly return of the 90-day Treasury bill (over a 36-month period) is subtracted from the fund's average monthly return. The difference in total return represents the fund's excess return beyond that of the 90-day Treasury bill, a risk-free investment. An arithmetic annualized excess return is then calculated by multiplying this monthly return by 12. To show a relationship between excess return and risk, this number is then divided by the standard deviation of the fund's annualized excess returns. The higher the Sharpe ratio, the better the fund's historical risk-adjusted performance.

The defination and meaning of Shell company is A company set up by fraudulent operators as a front to conceal tax evasion schemes.

The defination and meaning of Shifting an incidence of taxation is Determination of the economic entity that actually ends up paying a particular tax. In the case of indirect taxation tax is normally intended to fall upon consumption and be borne by consumers, so that entrepreneur who pays the tax on his supplies of goods and services in general passes on the tax, or "shifts" it "forward" to the consumer by adjusting his prices appropriately. Such taxes are said to be shifted "backward" in the case that entrepreneurs are forced to absorb some of new or increased tax.

The defination and meaning of Short is This is a condition resulting from selling an option and not owning the related securities.

The defination and meaning of Short (oversold) position is Excess of sales over purchases or of foreign currency assets over liabilities. (This is opposite to long or overbought).

The defination and meaning of Short Hedge is Selling futures contracts to protect against possible declining prices of commodities that will be sold in the future. At the time the cash commodities are sold, the open futures position is closed by purchasing an equal number and type of futures contracts as those that were initially sold. See Hedging.

The defination and meaning of Short Interest is Shares that have been sold short but not yet repurchased.

The defination and meaning of Short interest ratio is A ratio which tells how many days it would take to buy back all the share which have been sold short. A short interest ratio of 2 would indicate that it would take 2 trading days to buy back all the shares which have been sold short. This is based on the current volume.

The defination and meaning of Short Position is An investor’s position where the number of contracts sold exceeds the number of contracts bought. The person is a net seller.

The defination and meaning of Short Sale is Selling stock you don’t own. You hope it drops in price so you can buy it back later at a lower price. You must have a margin account with your broker to sell short.

The defination and meaning of Short Sale Squeeze is A short sale squeeze occurs when there are many short sale positions on a stock the stock begins to increase. As the stock price rises, the short sellers scramble to cover their short positions, i.e., buying the stock they have sold back. This creates demand for the stock above that which caused the stock price to start rising in the first place, and can lead to rapid price appreciation.

The defination and meaning of Short Selling is The selling of a security that the seller does not own (naked or uncovered short) or has borrowed (covered short). Short selling is a trading strategy. Short sellers assume the risk that they will be able to buy the stock at a lower price, cover the outstanding short, and realize a profit from the difference.

The defination and meaning of Short Squeeze is A sharp move up in stock price forcing short sellers to liquidate their positions.

The defination and meaning of Short-form bill of lading (B/L) is A simplified B/L which contains a reference to or an abbreviation of the carrier’s full B/L or carriage conditions.

The defination and meaning of Short-term capital gains is Capital gain derived from the disposal of assets which have been held for a comparatively short period of time.

The defination and meaning of Short-term Debt is Borrowings that must be repaid within one-year.

The defination and meaning of Short-term Investments is Stocks and other liquid securities.

The defination and meaning of Short-Term Trading Index (Arms Index, TRIN, MKDS) is A ratio of the volume in the average advancing stock to the volume in the average down stock. It monitors whether the average up (down) stock is currently getting its share of the volume. A reading of one (1) indicates there is an even amount of volume in the average up and down stocks. 0.50 means there is twice as much volume in the average up stock as in the average down stock. 2.00 is the exact opposite, or twice as much volume in the average down stock.

The defination and meaning of Shortage is It refers to the shortfall of funds that a family may have to face in the event of death of the policyholder. This happens when expenses exceed family income.

The defination and meaning of Sight a bill is The operation of presenting to the drawee a bill drawn at a period after sight, and obtaining their acceptance which contains the date on which the bill is sighted.

The defination and meaning of Sight draft (sight bill) is A financial instrument payable upon presentation or demand. It must be presented for payment by its holder (payee, endorsee, or bearer) within
reasonable time.

The defination and meaning of Signal is In the context of stock or commodity time series historical data, this is usually daily or weekly prices.

The defination and meaning of Signal Line is In artificial intelligence, a numeric variable that is prevalued in the knowledge base. In moving average jargon, the first moving average is smoothed by a second moving average. The second moving average is the signal line.

The defination and meaning of Significance is The probability of rejection on the basis of a statistical test and a hypothesis that there is no validity to the specific claim that two variations of the same thing can be distinguished by a specific procedure.

The defination and meaning of Simple Interest is Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the interest rate by the principal by the number of periods. It ignores the effect of compounding and is suitable for calculating interest on short term deposits.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Simple linear regression is A regression analysis between only two variables, one dependent and the other explanatory.

The defination and meaning of Simple linear trend model is An extrapolative statistical model that asserts that earnings have a base level and grow at a constant amount each period.

The defination and meaning of Simple moving average is (SMA) The mean, calculated at any time over a past period of fixed length.

The defination and meaning of Simple Moving Average (SMA) is This is the average stock price over a certain period of time.

The defination and meaning of Simplified Employee Pension Plan (SEP) is An employer-sponsored retirement plan that is designed for owners of small businesses or self-employed individuals. Contributions are tax-deductible and earnings tax-deferred. Qualified individuals can contribute a fixed percentage of their earned net income (up to $49,000 maximum for 2011). SEPs are more flexible, easier to set up, and simpler to administer than many other qualified plans.

The defination and meaning of Simulation is The use of a mathematical model to imitate a situation many times in order to estimate the likelihood of various possible outcomes. See: Monte Carlo simulation.

The defination and meaning of Simulation Analysis of Financial Exposure is A sophisticated computer risk-analysis program that monitors the risk of clearing member and large-volume traders at the Chicago Board of Trade. It calculates the risk of change in market prices or volatility to a firm carrying open positions.

The defination and meaning of Single entity approach is Method of taxing a legal entity that conducts its business through a permanent establishment rather than through a subsidiary company. Under the single entity approach, a head office and a permanent establishment are treated as one taxpayer for tax purposes, even though they may be considered separate entities for purposes of accounting or commercial law.

The defination and meaning of Single Premium Policy is A life insurance policy for people who want to buy a policy for a one-time lump sum payment and then be covered for the specified term or for life, as per the insurance contract, without paying any additional premiums.

The defination and meaning of Single taxpayer is A person who is not married on the last day of the tax year.

The defination and meaning of Single-premium annuity is An annuity whose purchase price is paid in one lump sum.

The defination and meaning of Single-premium life is A whole life policy paid for with one premium

The defination and meaning of Sinking Fund is A requirement specified in a bond indenture that obligates the firm to annually retire a specified portion of the debt.
Fixed Income, Bonds

The defination and meaning of SIP is SIP works on the principle of regular investments. It is like your recurring deposit where you put in a small amount every month. It allows you to invest in a MF by making smaller periodic investments (monthly or quarterly) in place of a heavy one-time investment i.e. SIP allows you to pay 10 periodic investments of Rs 500 each in place of a one-time investment of Rs 5,000 in an MF. Thus, you can invest in an MF without altering your other financial liabilities. It is imperative to understand the concept of rupee cost averaging and the power of compounding to better appreciate the working of SIPs.

The defination and meaning of Site Plans is A drawing of an area of land, on a horizontal plane, showing the boundaries and physical extent of the land included in a particular parcel. It may also show any existing buildings or the proposed layout of a development.

The defination and meaning of Situs rule is Provision of tax law setting out the factors which determine where a particular asset is situated or deemed to be situated for tax purposes.

The defination and meaning of Slabbed coins is Slabbed coins are coins encapsulated in plastic for protection against wear and tear. Generally, "slabbed" coins are graded by one of the two major grading services.

The defination and meaning of Slander is Spoken words that are defamatory and/or injurious to a person?s reputation.

The defination and meaning of Slippage is The difference between estimated transaction costs and actual transaction costs.

The defination and meaning of SLR is Statutory liquidity ratio is in the form of cash (book value), gold (current market value) and balances in unencumbered approved securities
SLR, Statutory liquidity ratio

The defination and meaning of Small business relief is Term used to denote tax concessions which are available only to or principally to small businesses.

The defination and meaning of Small Cap is Company with market capitalization less than $1 billion.

The defination and meaning of Small traders, special tax regime for is In many countries small traders are subject to a special tax regime, particularly in respect of VAT, in which exemption, lower tax burden or lower administrative burden are granted.

The defination and meaning of Smart Card is Smart cards are called so because they are smarter! They contain a computer chip with 16K of memory embedded in the plastic! Smart cards can perform a number of functions, access data stored in the chip, they can be used as cash cards or as credit cards with a preset credit limit, or even as ID cards with stored-in passwords.

The defination and meaning of Smoothing is Simply, a mathematical technique that removes excess data variability while maintaining a correct ap praisal of the underlying trend.

The defination and meaning of Soak-up tax is Tax or levy which is conditioned on the availability of a foreign tax credit in another country.

The defination and meaning of Social insurance is Insurance plans operated by public agencies, usually on a compulsory basis.

The defination and meaning of Social sector is This includes unorganised sector, informal sector, economically vulnerable or backward classes and other categories of persons, both in rural and urban areas.

The defination and meaning of Social Security is A government-mandated program providing benefits for disability, death, and retirement to those who qualify. All earnings are subject to Social Security tax. Although benefits are related to the amount paid, no personal Social Security accounts are created - unlike other retirement accounts. Rather, today's Social Security taxes go directly to today's program recipients, with the excess funds used for alternative government spending.

The defination and meaning of Soft market is An environment where insurance is plentiful and sold at a lower cost, also known as a buyers? market.

The defination and meaning of Solvency is Insurance companies? ability to pay the claims of policyholders. Regulations to promote solvency include minimum capital and surplus require-ments, statutory accounting conventions, limits to insurance company investment and corporate activities, financial ratio tests, and financial data disclosure.

The defination and meaning of Source of income is The place (or country) where a particular item of income is deemed to originate or where it is deemed to be generated. National rules vary, depending on which concept of source is used.

The defination and meaning of Source principle of taxation is Principle for the taxation of international income flows according to which a country consider as taxable income those income arising within its jurisdiction regardless of the residence of the taxpayer, i.e. residents and non-residents are taxed on income derived from the country.

The defination and meaning of Source rule is Provision in the national law of a country or in a tax treaty which defined the concept of source for a particular type of income.

The defination and meaning of Special agent is A person who is authorized to perform only a specific act or function and who has no general powers within the insurance company.

The defination and meaning of Special documentary credit liability (SPECIAL DOC L/C) is Some documentary credits may allow for a negotiable set of documents to be forwarded direct to the customer as well as to the bank/branch concerned. In this case the customer could gain control of the goods before they have paid for them. This is a direct liability from the time of establishment of the credit.

The defination and meaning of Special Terms is Orders which must trade under special conditions. For example, a cash order will be settled sooner than the usual three-day settlement period.

The defination and meaning of Special Trading Session is A session during which trading in a listed security is limited to the execution of transactions at a single price.

The defination and meaning of Specialist is A trader on the market floor assigned to fill bids/orders in a specific stock out of his/her own account when the order has no competing bid/order to ensure a fair and orderly market.

The defination and meaning of Specialist Short Sale Ratio is The ratio of the number of shares sold short by the specialists in a given period to the total number of shares shorted. It gives an indication of the sentiment of this group of market professionals.

The defination and meaning of Specialty Fund is A mutual fund specializing in the securities of a particular industry or group of industries or special types of securities.

The defination and meaning of Spectrum is The frequency decomposition of time series data. This is used to detect periodic fluctuations or cycles in historical price data.

The defination and meaning of Speculation Index is Historically, the ratio of the American Stock Exchange volume to that of the New York Stock Exchange. When the American Exchange volume is relatively high, it is thought to be a sign of increased speculation because of the large number of low-priced issues which trade there. Excessively high levels in this index have occurred near many market tops.

The defination and meaning of Speculative risk is The uncertainty of an event that could produce either a profit or a loss, such as a business venture or a gambling transaction.

The defination and meaning of Speculator is Someone prepared to accept calculated risks in the marketplace for attractive potential returns.

The defination and meaning of Spike is A chart pattern revealing a sudden or extreme move to a new high or low. These formations are followed by an equally extreme move in the opposite direction.

The defination and meaning of Split Shares is Capital and preferred shares issued by a split-share corporation. A split-share corporation holds common shares of one or more companies. The corporation then issues two classes of shares - capital shares and preferred shares. The objective is to generate fixed, cumulative, preferential dividends for the holders of preferred shares and to enable the holders of the capital shares to participate in any capital appreciation (or depreciation) in the underlying common shares.

The defination and meaning of Spot is Usually refers to a cash market price for a physical commodity that is available for immediate delivery.

The defination and meaning of Spot exchange is Foreign Exchange bought and sold for immediate delivery - in practice almost invariably for delivery two business days after the conclusion of the
deal.

The defination and meaning of Spot market is Market where people buy and sell actual financial instruments (currencies) for two-day delivery.

The defination and meaning of Spot Month is The futures contract month closest to expiration. Also referred to as spot or front month.

The defination and meaning of Spot price is The current market price of a currency that normally settles in 2 business days (1 day for Dollar/Canada).

The defination and meaning of Spot Prices is Same as cash price, the price at which a commodity is selling at a particular time and place.

The defination and meaning of Spot rate is Rate of exchange quoted for purchases and sales of a foreign currency for immediate delivery and payment.

The defination and meaning of Spot/Next or S/N roll is The process of moving the spot settlement value date on an open position forward to the next valid value date. This process will affect the profit or loss on the overnight position. The forward points reflect the difference in interest rates between the currencies being rolled over.

The defination and meaning of Spousal IRA Definition is Spousal IRAs let stay-at-home spouses contribute the full amount allowed to an individual retirement account in any given year -- even if they earn no personal income -- as long as their husband or wife earns enough to cover their contribution. Contributions can be made to either a traditional or to a Roth IRA, subject to the usual income caps and contribution limits.

Once spousal IRA money is contributed, it belongs to the non-wage-earning spouse, regardless of where the money came from. The wage-earning spouse need only earn enough income to cover the IRA contribution, as well as any other retirement plan contributions the family makes in a given year.

The defination and meaning of Spread is The spread is the gap between bid and ask prices of a stock, option, or other security. This term is also used to generally describe a number of strategies that make use of different spreads between calls, puts and the underlying stock, e.g., Bull Spread with Calls, Bull Spread with Puts, Bear Spread with Puts, Bear Spread with Calls, Butterfly Spread, Calendar Spread, Ratio Call Spread.

The defination and meaning of Spread of risk is The selling of insurance in multiple areas to multiple policyholders to minimize the danger that all policyholders will have losses at the same time. Companies are more likely to insure perils that offer a good spread of risk. Flood insurance is an example of a poor spread of risk because the people most likely to buy it are the people close to rivers and other bodies of water that flood.

The defination and meaning of Spread Rolls is Using a spread order to bridge the closing of one position and the establishment of a new one.

The defination and meaning of Spread-of-loss treaty is A type of reinsurance wherein losses are spread over a five-year period with little or no risk transfer after the five-year period ends.

The defination and meaning of Spreading is The simultaneous buying and selling of two related markets in the expectation that a profit will be made when the position is offset. Examples include the following: buying one futures contract and selling another futures contract of the same commodity but different delivery month; buying and selling the same delivery month of the same commodity on different futures exchanges; buying a given delivery month of one futures market and selling the same delivery month of a different, but related, futures market.

The defination and meaning of Spring is A two-day pattern in which on the first day, the market declines below a support point, while the next day sees the market move strongly back up into the congestion area.

The defination and meaning of Stair-stepping is In which market activity is characterized by a trend, then sideways movements, followed by another trend and further sideways movement.

The defination and meaning of Stamp duties is Duty levied upon the issue of official documents such as passports, deeds, contracts for the transfer of ownership, etc. Usually, stamp duties are "levied" by way of a stamp being fixed to the document in question. Stamp tax

The defination and meaning of Stamp Duty is It is the duty/fee payable on the different instruments/documents as per the prescribed rate. This differs from state to state. The adequacy of stamp duty should be ensured to make a document valid and enforceable.

The defination and meaning of Standard Card is The basic card offered by issuers.

The defination and meaning of Standard Deviation is Standard deviation is a statistical measure of the range of a fund's performance. When a fund has a high standard deviation, its range of performance has been very wide, indicating that there is a greater potential for volatility. The standard deviation figure provided here is an annualized statistic based on 36 monthly returns. By definition, approximately 68% of the time, the total returns of any given fund are expected to differ from its mean total return by no more than plus or minus the standard deviation figure. Ninety-five percent of the time, a fund's total returns should be within a range of plus or minus two times the standard deviation from its mean. These ranges assume that a fund's returns fall in a typical bell-shaped distribution. In any case, the greater the standard deviation, the greater the fund's volatility.

The defination and meaning of Standard premium is What an employer would pay at manual rates after adjustment for experience rating but before adjustment for retrospective rating.

The defination and meaning of Standard Risk is Person who according to a company's underwriting standards is entitled to insurance protection without extra rating or special restrictions.

The defination and meaning of Standardized Unanticipated Earnings is A company's average earnings surprise is compared with analyst earnings estimates dispersion, which can be used to estimate the likelihood of earnings surprises.

The defination and meaning of Standing Committees is Committees formed for the purpose of assisting in decision-making on an ongoing basis.

The defination and meaning of State-mandated benefits is Benefits that the state requires be offered to employees by employers.

The defination and meaning of Static risks is Uncertainties, either pure or speculative, that stem from an unchanging society that is in stable equilibrium.

The defination and meaning of Stationarity is A distribution of a quantity that does not change over time.

The defination and meaning of Stationary Time Series is Implies that no trend is observed in the time series. Identified when the time series has a constant mean and variance.

The defination and meaning of Statute of limitations is A statute limiting the period within which a specific legal action may be taken, such as the collection of tax, appeal from a decision of the tax authorities or lower court, etc.

The defination and meaning of Steer/Corn Ratio is The relationship of cattle prices to feeding costs. It is measured by dividing the price of cattle ($/hundredweight) by the price of corn ($/bushel). When corn prices are high relative to cattle prices, fewer units of corn equal the dollar value of 100 pounds of cattle. Conversely, when corn prices are low in relation to cattle prices, more units of corn are required to equal the value of 100 pounds of beef. See Feed Ratio.

The defination and meaning of Step Function is A function defined on an interval so that the interval can be partitioned into a finite number of subinter vals on each of which the function is a constant. Also known as a simple function.

The defination and meaning of Stepwise Regression is A mathematical technique to choose the independent variables that best describe the behavior of the dependent, in order of improving description.

The defination and meaning of Sterling is Another term for the British currency, "The Pound".

The defination and meaning of Stochastic is The Stochastic Indicator is based on the observation that as prices increase, closing prices tend to accumulate ever closer to the highs for the period. Conversely, as prices decrease, closing prices tend to accumulate ever closer to the lows for the period. Trading decisions are made with respect to divergence between % of “D” (one of the two lines generated by the study) and the item’s price. For example, when a commodity or stock makes a high, reacts, and subsequently moves to a higher high while corresponding peaks on the % of “D” line make a high and then a lower high, a bearish divergence is indicated. When a commodity or stock has established a new low, reacts, and moves to a lower low while the corresponding low points on the % of “D” line make a low and then a higher low, a bullish divergence is indicated. Traders act upon this divergence when the other line generated by the study (K) crosses on the right-hand side of the peak of the % of “D” line in the case of a top, or on the right-hand side of the low point of the % of “D” line in the case of a bottom. Two variations of the Stochastic Indicator are in use: Regular and Slow. When the Regular plot of the Stochastic too choppy, the “Slow” version can often clarify the results by reducing the sensitivity of the calculations. The formula is:

Note: 5 Days is the most commonly used value for %K
%K=100 {(C-L5)/(H5-L5)}
The %D line is a 3 day smoothed version of the %K line
%D=100(H3/L3) where H3 is the 3 day sum of (C-L5) and L3 is the 3 day sum of (H5-L5)

The defination and meaning of Stochastic models is Liability-matching models that assume that the liability payments and the asset cash flows are uncertain. Related: Deterministic models.

The defination and meaning of Stochastic oscillator is A stochastic oscillator measures, on a percentage basis, where a contract is in relation to its price range for a selected number of days. It’s actually a study that helps determine overbought and oversold conditions in the market. It compares where a contract’s price closed relative to its price range over a given time period. It is graphically displayed in two lines.

The defination and meaning of Stochastics is Select this toggle to display the selected stock’s stochastics, calculated using a 10-day period. Stochastics give an indication of the stocks last closing price relative to the stocks recent trading range. On uptrends stocks tend to close near the high of the day’s trading range. As the trend matures, stocks tend to close away from the highs of the day. During a downtrend stocks will most likely close near the low of the trading range. The stochastic indicator attempts to find trend reversals by measuring points in a rising trend where closing prices are near the lows of the day and vice versa. A low stochastic indicates that a stock is trading near the bottom of its recent trading range, where a high stochastic indicates that a stock is trading near the top of its recent trading range. [marketguide.com]

K=(Price – L)/(H – L)*100
Price – closing price for the day
L – n-period low price
H – n-period high price
n – any number (usually 5-21), our default is a 10 day period

The defination and meaning of stochastic–random is Finance theorists believing in the efficient market hypothesis hold that futures prices move in a random fashion (stochastic process).

The defination and meaning of Stock Dividend/Distribution is A dividend/distribution paid in securities of the same issue or a different issue of the same issuer or another issuer. A stock dividend/distribution can be used as a means to list a new issuer. The issuer or its representative provides the amount, payable date, and record date. The exchange that the issue is listed on sets the ex-dividend/distribution (ex-d) date for entitlement.

The defination and meaning of Stock exchange turnover tax is Tax levied on the sale of securities on the stock exchange market.

The defination and meaning of Stock Fund is A mutual fund that primarily invests in stocks.

The defination and meaning of Stock Index is An indicator used to measure and report value changes in a selected group of stocks. How a particular stock index tracks the market depends on its composition–the sampling of stocks, the weighting of individual stocks, and the method of averaging used to establish an index.

The defination and meaning of Stock Index Futures is Futures contracts which have a stock index as the underlying interest.

The defination and meaning of Stock List Deletion is A security issue that is removed or delisted from the list of tradable security issues of an exchange. It is usually accompanied with a reason for deletion and the deletion date.

The defination and meaning of Stock Market is A market in which shares of stock are bought and sold.

The defination and meaning of Stock Price Index is A statistical measure of the state of the stock market, based on the performance of certain stocks. Examples include the S&P/TSX Composite Index and the S&P/TSX Venture Composite Index.

The defination and meaning of Stock Split is A corporate action that increases the number of securities issued and outstanding, without the issuer receiving any consideration for the issue. Approval by security holders is required in many jurisdictions. Each security holder gets more securities, in direct proportion to the amount of securities they own on the record date; thus, their percentage ownership of the issuer does not change. For example, a two-for-one stock split involves the issuance of two new securities for every old security.

The defination and meaning of Stock Symbol is A one-character to three-character, alphabetic root symbol, which represents an issuer listed on Toronto Stock Exchange or TSX Venture Exchange.

The defination and meaning of Stock Symbol Extension is The character or characters that may follow the stock symbol to uniquely identify a listed security. It can be a single alphabetic character, two alphabetic characters, or a combination of two plus one characters with a maximum of eight characters for the stock symbol, extension and separator dots in between. For example, BMO.PR.U. Currently, they include: A-B - class of shares B - debentureE - equity dividendH - NEX marketIR - installment receiptsNO, NS, NT - notesP - Capital Pool CompanyPR - preferredR - subscription receiptsRT - rightsS - special U.S. termsU, V - U.S. fundsUN - units W - when issued WT - warrants

The defination and meaning of Stop and reverse is A stop that when hit is a signal to close the current position and open an opposite position. A trader holding a long position would sell that position and then go short on the same security.

The defination and meaning of Stop and Reverse (SAR) is A stop that, when hit, is a signal to reverse the current trading position, i.e., from long to short. Also known as reversal stop .

The defination and meaning of Stop Loss is The risk management technique in which the trade is liquidated to halt any further decline in value.

The defination and meaning of Stop Loss order is Order to buy or sell when a given price is reached or passed to liquidate part or all of an existing position.

The defination and meaning of Stop Order is An order placed which is not at the current market price. It becomes a market order once the security touches the specified price. Buy stop orders are placed above the present market price. Sell stop orders are placed below the present market price (also known as a stop loss). If a stock gaps past the stop order, it becomes a market order and is filled at the next trading price.

The defination and meaning of Stop Order (stop loss) is Order with broker to sell stock at market price when it goes down to specified (limit) price.

The defination and meaning of Stop Order (Stop) is An order to buy or sell at the market when and if a specified price is reached.

The defination and meaning of Stop-Limit Order is A variation of a stop order in which a trade must be executed at the limit price or better. If the order cannot be executed, it is held until the stated price or better is reached again.

The defination and meaning of Stop-loss is A client’s order to close an open position after a price reaches a certain level. It is used to minimize losses.

The defination and meaning of Stop-Running is After a trend, the market will enter into a trading range and have a tendency to trade to levels where stop-loss orders have been placed.

The defination and meaning of Stops is Buy stops are orders that are placed at a predetermined price over the current price of the market. The order becomes a "buy at the market" order if the market is at or above to the price of the stop order. Sell stops are orders that are placed with a predetermined price below the current price. Sell-stop orders become "Sell at the market" orders if the market trades at or below the price of the stop order.

The defination and meaning of Straddle is The purchase or sale of an equivalent number of puts and calls on an underlying stock with the same exercise price and expiration date.

The defination and meaning of Straight bill of lading is A non-negotiable bill of lading, which specifies the consignee to whom the goods are to be delivered. The carrier is contractually obliged to deliver the goods to that person only. It is often used when payment for the goods has been made in advance.

The defination and meaning of Straight deductible is A deductible that applies to each loss and is subtracted before any loss payment is made.

The defination and meaning of Straight life is A whole life policy in which premiums are payable as long as the insured lives.

The defination and meaning of Straight life annuity is A life annuity in which there is no refund to any beneficiary at the death of the annuitant.

The defination and meaning of Straight term is Term insurance that covers a specific period of time and which cannot be renewed.

The defination and meaning of Strata Title is Freehold title to a horizontal title above and/or below. Satisfactory arrangements for management usually involve a statutory obligation for the setting up of a management corporation with responsibility for the maintenance of common facilities and areas.

The defination and meaning of Street Certificate is These are certificates registered in the name of a securities firm rather than the owner of the security. This makes the certificate easily transferable to a new owner.

The defination and meaning of Strike Price is The price at which the futures contract underlying a call or put option can be purchased (if a call) or sold (if a put). Also referred to as exercise price.

The defination and meaning of Strips is An option strategy in which an investor buys one call and two puts on the same underlying security with the same exercise price and expiration date.

The defination and meaning of Struck is The price at which an exercised option delivers the underlying securities.

The defination and meaning of Structured Products is Closed-end or open-end investment funds, which provide innovative and flexible investment products designed to respond to modern investor needs, such as yield enhancement, risk reduction, or asset diversification. Structured products allow investors to buy a single unit/share of a fund that represents an interest in the investment portfolio. Based on the investment strategy, the portfolio can purchase a basket of securities, track an index, or hold a specific type of security or portion of a security.The subcategories under the structured products include: investment funds, ETFs, capital trusts, split share corporations, and mutual fund partnerships.

The defination and meaning of Structured settlement is Legal agreement to pay a designated person, usually someone who has been injured, a specified sum of money in periodic payments, usually for his or her lifetime, instead of in a single lump sum payment.

The defination and meaning of Sub Leasing is A method wherein, the primary lessee of a property has the right to further lease out a part or whole of the property to another occupier or lessee. Essentially, the right to sub lease is decided beforehand at the time of signing the main lease agreement and is with the consent of both the lessor and the lessee.

The defination and meaning of Subjective risk is The risk based on the mental state of an individual who experiences uncertainty or doubt as to the outcome of a given event.

The defination and meaning of Subrogation is The legal process by which an insurance company, after paying a loss, seeks to recover the amount of the loss from another party who is legally liable for it.

The defination and meaning of Subsequent Purchase is This indicates the smallest permissible additional purchase a fund will accept in an existing account.

The defination and meaning of Subsidiary company is Company effectively controlled by another company (i.e. the parent company). A variety of criteria, including share ownership ratio, may be employed to determine whether one company is a subsidiary of another company for tax purposes.

The defination and meaning of Substance over form doctrine is Doctrine which allows the tax authorities to ignore the legal form of an arrangement and to look to its actual substance in order to prevent artificial structures form being used for tax avoidance purposes.

The defination and meaning of Substandard Risk is Person who is considered an under-average or impaired insurance risk because of physical conditions family or personal history of disease, occupation, residence in unhealthy climate or dangerous habits.

The defination and meaning of Substantially Equal Periodic Payments is A type of distribution from an IRA that may begin, without penalty, prior to age 59½. Substantially equal payments are calculated over the IRA owner's life expectancy.

The defination and meaning of Substitutional Listing is A broad category of transactions that involves one security on the stock list being replaced by another security or securities.

The defination and meaning of Suicide clause is A clause in life insurance that requires payment by the insurer, even in the event of suicide, if the suicide occurs after a two-year period from the date the policy was issued.

The defination and meaning of Suitability Standard is The level to which a broker is typically held with respect to his conduct with his consumers. Unlike an investment advisor, a broker is not obligated to act in the best interests of his client and, as such, can freely choose investments with higher cost for the client but pay higher commissions for the broker. Compare to a fiduciary duty, a higher standard of care placed on investment advisors.

The defination and meaning of Sum Assured is The amount that the assurer agrees to pay on the occurrence of an event.

The defination and meaning of Supplemental assessment is Determination of tax liabilities at the discretion of the tax authorities if an original assessment is incomplete or incorrect in any material respect.

The defination and meaning of Supplemental Listing is A type of listing transaction, made after an issuer's original listing, that involves the listing and posting for trading of a new issue of securities. Typically, this involves the listing of preferred shares, rights, warrants, or debentures. Supplemental also covers the additional listing of when-issued shares through a secondary offering of an issue that is already listed.

The defination and meaning of Supplementary Card is Same as Add-on card. It is a privilege offered to the spouse, parents or children of the primary credit card holder. The fee for an add-on card varies between Rs. 125 to Rs. 1,000 depending on the type of card and all expenses incurred on an add-on card are billed to the primary cardholder.

The defination and meaning of Supply, Law of is The relationship between product supply and its price.

The defination and meaning of Support is A price level at which declining prices stop falling and move sideways or upward. It is a price level where there is sufficient demand to stop the price from falling.

The defination and meaning of Support Level is An area or price level where a price decline may be expected to be halted (or to slow) by an increase in demand. Opposite of resistance.

The defination and meaning of Support Levels is Support levels are levels where a declining stock will find bottom and bounce up from. Supports are formed when a stock breaks above resistance and holds above that level: the old resistance then becomes support. Support levels are also formed when a stock spends a lot of time at one level and then breaks upward. The level that the stock spent most of the time at will most likely act as support. Key moving averages, such as the 18, 50, and 200, also act as support. We like to buy stocks as they bounce upward off of support levels and are backed by good money flow and buying.

The defination and meaning of Support Line is On a chart, a line drawn indicating the price level at which falling prices have stopped falling and have moved sideways or reversed direction.

The defination and meaning of Surcharge is Charges added to ocean freight, variously, for bunker (fuel), currency fluctuation, congestion, port detention, or extra risk insurance.

The defination and meaning of Surety is In a bond, the party who agrees to reimburse the oblige.

The defination and meaning of Surety bond is A contract guaranteeing the performance of a specific obligation. Simply put, it is a three-party agreement under which one party, the surety company, answers to a second party, the owner, creditor or?obligee,? for a third party?s debts, default or nonperformance. Contractors are often required to purchase surety bonds if they are working on public projects. The surety company becomes responsible for carrying out the work or paying for the loss up to the bond?penalty? if the contractor fails to perform.

The defination and meaning of Surplus is The remainder after an insurer?s liabilities are subtracted from its assets. The financial cushion that protects policyholders in case of unexpectedly high claims.

The defination and meaning of Surprise is Difference between reported earnings and analysts’ consensus forecasts. It’s a positive surprise if reported earnings exceed forecasts, and a negative surprise when reported earnings come in below forecasts.

The defination and meaning of Surrender Charge is Fee charged to a policyholder when a life insurance policy or annuity is surrendered for its cash value.

The defination and meaning of Surrender or Cash Value is If a policy is surrendered before the maturity date of a policy, the sum that is payable at that point is called the surrender value. The surrender or cash value is the amount payable to the policy holder should the policyholder decide to discontinue the policy and terminating the contract of insurance. However, the insurance protection provided under the policy will also cease.

The defination and meaning of Surrendered bill of lading liability (SBL) is Under a term import documentary credit the bank releases the documents  on receipt from the negotiating bank but the importer does not pay the bank  until the maturity of the draft under the relative credit. This direct liability is called Surrender Bill of Lading (SBL), i.e. when we hand over the bill of lading we surrender title to the goods and our power of sale over the goods.

The defination and meaning of Survivorship benefit is That amount of money that becomes available for distribution to living annuitants as a result of the death of other annuitants.

The defination and meaning of Suspended ceiling is A ceiling, not being part of the structural framework of a building, installed below the level of the underside of the floor above or of the roof. Commonly used to provide space for services eg. cables, recessed lighting and piping; to reduce the cost of heating in a room; to improve the acoustics; or to produce more aesthetically pleasing proportions.

The defination and meaning of Suspended Issue is The status of a listed security of an issuer whose trading privileges have been revoked by the Exchange. All securities of the issuer remain suspended until trading privileges have been reinstated, or the issuer is delisted.

The defination and meaning of Suspension is The end of the evening session for specific futures and options markets traded at the Chicago Board of Trade.

The defination and meaning of Swap (Storage) is The payment for transferring an open position overnight. May be both positive and negative. The night from Wednesday to Thursday triples the payment.

The defination and meaning of Swaps is The sale of one security to purchase another with similar features.

The defination and meaning of Sweep is Movement of funds from a non interest-bearing account to an interest bearing account.

The defination and meaning of Sweep Account is Many Banks have introduced a savings cum fixed deposit product called a “Sweep Account”. Here the account holder decides the minimum amount to be kept in his/her savings account. Any excess over it automatically gets transferred to a fixed deposit account. Whenever cash is needed,the bank can just transfer or 'sweep' in funds to the savings account.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications) is A computer network which is used to send instruction and payment statements.

The defination and meaning of SWIFT payment is International electronic funds transfer via the system known as SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Inter-bank Financial Telecommunications), offered by most major banks.

The defination and meaning of Swing index is The Swing Index (primarily for use with commodity trading) attempts to determine real market direction, and changes in direction, by making use of the most significant comparisons between the results (Open-High-Low-Close) of the current and previous days’ trading. [centrex.com]

The defination and meaning of Switching is Moving money from one scheme to another with in the fund family. See Exchange privilege.

The defination and meaning of Symbol Change is A change in a listed issuer's stock symbol, which may be required by the Exchange in the context of an issuer's reorganization or may be made at the request of the issuer. A requested symbol is available for use if it is appropriate for the type of security and the issuer's voting structure.

The defination and meaning of Systematic Withdrawal Plans is Many mutual funds offer withdrawal programs whereby shareholders receive payments from their investments. These payments are usually drawn from the fund's dividend income and capital gain distributions, if any, and from principal only when necessary.

The defination and meaning of T-Bill (Treasury Bill) is Debt issued by the RBI with maturity less than a year.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Take Profit order is A customer's instructions to buy or sell a currency pair which, when executed, will result in the reduction in the size of the existing position and show a profit on said position.

The defination and meaning of Tangible Book Value is Book Value minus goodwill and intangible assets.

The defination and meaning of Target Benefit Plan Definition is A target benefit plan is a retirement plan that requires employers to make minimum contributions to each employee's retirement account each year. 
The risk of actual investment performance rests with the worker. But employers are required to make contributions at a level designed to reach a certain payout goal -- the "target" -- for each employee, based in part on the employer's estimates of how the investments will perform and in part on the employee's age.

Unlike a money purchase plan, older employees in a target plan will get larger contributions because they have less time to reach retirement. And unlike a defined benefit plan, the end result is not guaranteed.

The defination and meaning of Target Date Fund is A target date fund is a mutual fund which will automatically reduce its risk as the investor reaches the target date, typically his anticipated retirement date. To do so, a target date fund will sell stocks and purchase more fixed income investments over time in recognition that a reduced risk profile is appropriate for someone approaching retirement. Very similar to life cycle fund.

The defination and meaning of Target Pension is The amount of pension that a policyholder desires under a pension policy.

The defination and meaning of Tax is The OECD working definition of a tax is a compulsory unrequited payment to the government.

The defination and meaning of Tax agent is Term which refers to a tax adviser who assists the taxpayer in fulfilling his obligations under the legislation.

The defination and meaning of Tax authorities is The body responsible for administering the tax laws of a particular country or regional or local authority.

The defination and meaning of Tax avoidance is See: Avoidance

The defination and meaning of Tax bill is Draft law on a tax matter which, after approval by the government of a country, is submitted to the Parliament for debate.

The defination and meaning of Tax burden is For public finance purposes the tax burden, or tax ratio, in a country is computed by taking the total tax payments for a particular fiscal year as a fraction or percentage of the Gross National Product (GNP) or national income for that year.

The defination and meaning of Tax clearance (37-1) is The Income Tax Act, 1961 specifies that any lease transaction for not less than 12 years or any sale transaction, above a prescribed transaction value limit tax, has to undergo a clearance process from the appellate body known as the Income Tax Appropriate Authority, constituted under the Income Tax Act. A joint application by the parties involved in the transaction is submitted along with processing fees to the Income Tax Authority, which takes upto a maximum of three months to grant the clearance, without which the sale transaction is not complete. This procedure is popularly known as the 37-(I) clearance, which is the application form number used for this purpose.

The defination and meaning of Tax clearance certificate is Document issued to a taxpayer by the tax authorities certifying that the taxpayer has either paid all taxes due or that he is not liable to any taxes. In certain countries a tax clearance certificate must be produced before a person can leave the country.

The defination and meaning of Tax compliance is Degree to which a taxpayer complies (or fails to comply) with the tax rules of his country, for example by declaring income, filing a return, and paying the tax due in a timely manner.

The defination and meaning of Tax declaration is See: Return

The defination and meaning of Tax Deducted at Source is A method of payment where the tax applicable at a specific rate is cut from the amount of interest or other payment and then the net amount is paid to the person who has to receive the amount. The tax is then deposited with the government along with the permanent account number of the receiver.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Tax evasion is See: Evasion

The defination and meaning of Tax exile is Generally speaking, a natural or legal person who severs all ties which make him fiscally resident in a particular country and moves to another jurisdiction for tax reasons.

The defination and meaning of Tax expenditure is This term denotes special preferences provided in income tax laws which depart from the normal tax structure and which are designed to favour a particular industry, activity or class of taxpayer.

The defination and meaning of Tax foreclosure is The process of enforcing a lien against property for non-payment of delinquent property taxes.

The defination and meaning of Tax form is It is usual to design special forms for taxpayers to declare their taxable income, sales, etc. for tax purposes. Forms are designed to facilitate the task of the tax authorities in assessing and collecting tax, and will usually draw the taxpayer's attention to any relief he may claim, etc. as well as to his statutory duty to make accurate declarations and the penalties that may be imposed if his declaration is incomplete or false.

The defination and meaning of Tax haven is Tax haven in the "classical" sense refers to a country which imposes a low or no tax, and is used by corporations to avoid tax which otherwise would be payable in a high-tax country. According to OECD report, tax havens have the following key characteristics; No or only nominal taxes; Lack of effective exchange of information; Lack of transparency in the operation of the legislative, legal or administrative provisions.

The defination and meaning of Tax holiday is Fiscal policy measure often found in developing countries. A tax holiday offers a period of exemption from income tax for new industries in order to develop or diversify domestic industries.

The defination and meaning of Tax home is A taxpayer's regular place of business or post of duty, regardless of where the taxpayer a family home.

The defination and meaning of Tax information exchange agreement (ties) is Agreement which allows governments to share tax and other information with a view to combating tax evasion, drug trafficking, etc.

The defination and meaning of Tax law, sources of is The main domestic sources of tax law are primary legislation, such as acts or laws, and secondary legislation such as regulation, decisions, circulars, orders, etc. The main international sources of tax law are bilateral or multilateral treaties, and one important source for the interpretation of treaties is the OECD model tax treaty and the accompanying commentary. Another model is UN model.

The defination and meaning of Tax on tax is The charging of tax on tax-inclusive prices.

The defination and meaning of Tax planning is Arrangement of a person's business and /or private affairs in order to minimize tax liability.

The defination and meaning of Tax relief is Generic term to describe all methods used to reduce tax liability without regard to the particular way it is accomplished.

The defination and meaning of Tax return is See: Return

The defination and meaning of Tax secrecy is Obligation usually imposed on tax officials not to reveal particulars about the identity and personal circumstances of taxpayers, or about any of the various aspects governing their tax liability, except in certain strictly limited circumstances.

The defination and meaning of Tax shelter is (1) An opportunity to use, quite legitimately, a relief or exemption from tax to pay less tax than one might otherwise have to pay in respect of similar activities, or the deferment of tax. (2) The polite term usually given to a contrived scheme to avoid or reduce a liability to taxation.

The defination and meaning of Tax sparing credit is Term used to denote a special form of double taxation relief in tax treaties with developing countries. Where a country grants tax incentives to encourage foreign investment and that company is a resident of another country with which a tax treaty has been concluded, the other country may give a credit against its own tax for the tax which the company would have paid if the tax had not been "spared (i.e. given up)" under the provisions of the tax incentives.

The defination and meaning of Tax threshold is Level (of income, capital, sales, etc.) at which tax commences to be levied.

The defination and meaning of Tax treaty is An agreement between two (or more) countries for the avoidance of double taxation. A tax treaty may be titled a Convention, Treaty or Agreement.

The defination and meaning of Tax unit is Term used in the context of personal income tax, where taxation may be imposed by reference to separate individuals or to a group of individuals treated as one unit.

The defination and meaning of Tax-Deferred is The postponement of taxes and sometimes the initial investment, until the funds are distributed.

The defination and meaning of Tax-Free is An account where earnings such as interest, dividends, and capital gains are permanently excluded from taxable income. A Roth IRA and a Roth 401(k) provide for tax-free growth, as the earnings of a Roth account are never subject to income tax if the other Roth IRA requirements are met.

The defination and meaning of Tax-free zone is Area within the territory of a country in which customs duties and other types of indirect taxes are not applied.

The defination and meaning of Tax-saving fixed deposits is A special category of fixed deposits where the investor gets the benefit of a tax break when they invest a sum of money in the deposit. The maximum benefit is available up to an investment of Rs 1 lakh and there is a lock-in period of 5 years in the deposit.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Taxable base is The thing or amount on which the tax rate is applied, e.g. corporate income, personal income, real property.

The defination and meaning of Taxable event is Term used to define an occurrence which affects the liability of a person to tax.

The defination and meaning of Taxable interest is The interest that is earned on the fixed deposit is taxable under the Income Tax Act. This means that every rupee of interest earned will be counted as income and tax levied on it.
Bank Fixed Deposits

The defination and meaning of Taxable period is Taxes are levied by reference to a period of time called the "taxable period".

The defination and meaning of Taxable year is The period (usually 12 months) during which the tax liability of an individual or entity is calculated.

The defination and meaning of Taxation at source is See: Withholding tax

The defination and meaning of Taxpayer identification number is In some countries taxpayers are given an identification number which must be used when filing a tax return and assessing taxes and for all other correspondence between the taxpayer and the tax authorities.

The defination and meaning of Technical Analysis is The study and use of price and volume charts and other technical indicators to make trading decisions. Technical analysis attempts to use past stock price and volume information to predict future price movements. Fundamentally, technical analysis shows in graphic form investor sentiment, both greed and fear. Understanding that concept is key to understanding technical analysis and being able to use it effectively to trade securities. With proper technical analysis, you can be ready for certain moves, and when your analysis is confirmed by the actual start of the move, trading positions can be taken. Technical analysis can be used for short-term trading or long-term position buying. We use if for both, and the two are closely related.

The defination and meaning of Technology Park is A landscaped development usually comprising of high specification office space as well as residential and retail developments, designed to encourage localisation of high technology companies such as information technology, software development etc., thereby giving each the benefit of economies of scale. Usually, technology parks are located outside the inner city areas as these are quite land intensive in nature.

The defination and meaning of Temporary disabilities is Illnesses or injuries that prevent a person from working for a limited time.

The defination and meaning of Temporary importation is Many countries allow temporary importation without levying customs duties and turnover tax on items which are to be within their borders for only a short time.

The defination and meaning of Temporary life annuity is An annuity that pays bene-fits until the expiration of a specified period of years or until the annuitant dies.

The defination and meaning of Tenancy is Strictly speaking, the interest of a person holding property by any right or title.

The defination and meaning of Tenant's improvements is Improvements to land or buildings to meet the needs of and carried out wholly or partly at the expense of the tenant.

The defination and meaning of Tenure is Period from the date of disbursement of loan to the date of the last EMI payment or the date of closure of loan.

The defination and meaning of Term is Term is the period for which insurance coverage is given.

The defination and meaning of Term Certain Payment Option is One of several choices available to an annuitant for payment. If the term certain option is selected, payments will continue for the minimum of the amount of years of the term or the owner's life. For example, if a 10 year term certain annuity is selected, payments will continue for an additional four years if the annuitant passes away after six years. Compare to Life Annuity and joint and survivor annuity.

The defination and meaning of Term contract is A health policy that expires at the end of a specified time and which cannot be renewed.v

The defination and meaning of Term Cover is A type of life insurance where the sum assured is payable only in the event of death of the insurer during the specified term. In the case of survival, the contract expires and the premium is not paid back to the insured.

The defination and meaning of Term insurance is A form of life insurance that covers the insured person for a certain period of time, the?term? that is specified in the policy. It pays a benefit to a designated beneficiary only when the insured dies within that specified period which can be one, five, 10 or even 20 years. Term life policies are renewable but premiums increase with age.

The defination and meaning of Term Insurance Rider is An endorsement or attachment to a life insurance policy that provides additional term coverage for the amount specified. If the insured dies during this time, the designated beneficiary(ies) can receive death benefit proceeds.

The defination and meaning of Term Life Insurance is A form of life insurance which provides coverage for a specified period of time and does not build cash value.

The defination and meaning of Term of a forward exchange contract is The term of a forward exchange contract, which is the period two business days after the date the contract is written and its maturity date.

The defination and meaning of Terrtoriality principle is Term used to connote the principle of levying tax only within the territorial jurisdiction of a sovereign tax authority or country, which is adopted by some countries. Residents are not taxed on any foreign-source income.

The defination and meaning of Tertiary Beneficiary is In life insurance, a beneficiary designated as third in line to receive the proceeds or benefits if the primary and secondary beneficiaries do not survive the insured.

The defination and meaning of Test is The movement of a stock or an average toward a previously established support or resistance level. It will respect the area reinforcing the support or resistance available there, or penetrate and initiate a new technical event such as a breakout.

The defination and meaning of Theft is Any act of stealing.

The defination and meaning of Theft insurance is Coverage against loss through stealing by individuals not in a position of trust.

The defination and meaning of Thin Market is A market that occurs when there are comparatively few bids to buy or offers to sell, or both. The phrase may apply to a single security or to the entire stock market. In a thin market, price fluctuations between transactions are usually larger than when the market is liquid. A thin market in a particular stock may reflect lack of interest in that issue, or a limited supply of the stock.

The defination and meaning of Third-party administrator is An administrator hired by an employer to handle claims and other administrative functions associated with employee benefits. May also refer to and outside group that performs clerical functions for an insurance company.

The defination and meaning of Third-party Owner is A policy owner who is not the prospective insured. The policy owner and the insured may be and often are the same person. If for example, you apply for and are issued an insurance policy, the owner and the insured is the policy owner insured.

The defination and meaning of Three Percent Rule is This is often used as a guideline to determine if a breakout or breakdown is valid. The price should move at least 3% above or below the respective level for the move to be regarded as valid.

The defination and meaning of Tick is Slang used for minimum spread. Depending on the stock price it could be a half-cent, one cent or five cents.

The defination and meaning of Tick Indicator is The number of stocks whose last trade was an uptick or a downtick.

The defination and meaning of Tick Volume is The number of ticks or price changes in a given time interval.

The defination and meaning of Ticker is A number, assigned to an opening position or to a pending order.

The defination and meaning of Ticker Tape is Each time a stock is bought and sold, it is displayed on an electronic ticker tape. It is a record of current trading activity on an exchange.

The defination and meaning of Ticket Fee is The administrative fee charged for each trade.

The defination and meaning of Tiebreaker rule is Tax treaty provision designed to prevent an individual from being deemed resident, for purpose of the treaty, in both treaty countries. Generally a multi-step procedure will be provided to resolve the problem of dual residence, usually the place of a permanent home available being the first criterion.

The defination and meaning of Time and Sales Ticker is Part of the Chicago Board of Trade Market Profile® system consisting of an on-line graphic service that transmits price and time information throughout the day.

The defination and meaning of Time Domain is Variation of a time series is accounted for by an autocorrelation function and other time series.

The defination and meaning of Time draft (time bill) is A financial instrument demanding payment at either:
• a future fixed date
• a specified period of time (30, 60, 90 days etc.) after either:
- sight
- the date of issue.
It is also called a usance draft or usance bill.

The defination and meaning of Time Limit Order is A customer order that designates the time during which it can be executed.

The defination and meaning of Time Segmented Volume (TSV) is TSV is a technical indicator that examines a stock's volume and price and compares them to determine if a stock is under accumulation (buying) or distribution (selling). If TSV is moving up, this can indicate that price may follow.

The defination and meaning of Time Series is A collection of observations made sequentially in time and indexed by time.

The defination and meaning of Time Value is The amount of money option buyers are willing to pay for an option in the anticipation that, over time, a change in the underlying futures price will cause the option to increase in value. In general, an option premium is the sum of time value and intrinsic value. Any amount by which an option premium exceeds the option's intrinsic value can be considered time value. Also referred to as extrinsic value or volatility value.

The defination and meaning of Time-Stamp is Part of the order-routing process in which the time of day is stamped on an order. An order is time-stamped when it is (1) received on the trading floor, and (2) completed.

The defination and meaning of Timely Disclosure Policy is This policy requires all listed companies to publicly disclose material information in a timely manner.

The defination and meaning of Title is It is the right and interest over the property evidencing the ownership.

The defination and meaning of Title insurance is Insurance that indemnifies the owner of real estate in the event that his or her clear ownership of property is challenged by the discovery of faults in the title.

The defination and meaning of To Buy and To Sell is These are phrases used in placing orders to either buy or sell securities. If you are placing an order to purchase ten contracts of Dell October $40 calls at a limit of 4 5/8 for the day, you would tell your broker you were placing a day order for 10 contracts of Dell October $40 strike calls to buy at a limit of 4 5/8. This gives your broker all the information he or she needs to place the order.

The defination and meaning of Tola is One Tola is equal to 11.7 grams or 180 grains or 0.375 troy ounce.

The defination and meaning of Tomorrow Next (Tom/Next), (T/N), T/N Roll is The process of moving the settlement value date on an open position forward from one business day after the trade date (tomorrow), to the next valid value date (next), the spot value date.

The defination and meaning of Tool is A currency pair or a contract for difference.

The defination and meaning of Top is A charting term meaning the stock price is going down from here.

The defination and meaning of Top or Tops is A period of distribution. The high point of an upward move or one of several recognized reversal patterns.

The defination and meaning of Top-Line is Sales or revenues.

The defination and meaning of Tort is A legal term denoting a wrongful act resulting in injury or damage on which a civil court action, or legal proceeding, may be based.

The defination and meaning of Tort law is The body of law governing negligence, intentional interference, and other wrongful acts for which civil action can be brought, except for breach of contract, which is covered by contract law.

The defination and meaning of Tortfeasor is A wrongdoer; one who commits a tort.

The defination and meaning of Total disability is An illness or injury that renders a person completely incapable of gainful employment during the period of disability.

The defination and meaning of Total initial payment is Initial payment made by the customer when the asset is purchased, also includes service charges and advance EMIs if any.

The defination and meaning of Total loss is The condition of an automobile or other property when damage is so extensive that repair costs would exceed the value of the vehicle or property.

The defination and meaning of Total Number of Shares is The total number of issued and outstanding shares for the security.

The defination and meaning of Total Return Index Value (TRIV) is Similar to the stock price index value (SPIV), except that the TRIV is based on the aggregate, float quoted market value of the index constituents (SPIV) plus their paid dividends/distributions. TRIV is calculated only at the end of the trading session for all S&P/TSX indices.

The defination and meaning of Town and country planning is The determination of policy for the development and use of land and the control of its implementations in urban and rural areas by district and country planning authorities.

The defination and meaning of Trade acceptance is A bill of exchange drawn by the seller/exporter on the purchaser/importer of goods sold, and accepted by such purchaser.

The defination and meaning of Trade Balance is The difference between a nation's imports and exports of merchandise.

The defination and meaning of Trade date is The date on which a trade is executed for a specified value date

The defination and meaning of Trade finance is The term ‘trade finance’ can be described simply as finance for working capital. The main distinguishing feature about trade finance is that it relates to the movement, purchase and/or sale of goods, services and ‘know-how’. It usually pertains to international trade, therefore foreign currencies and exchange risks can be involved.

The defination and meaning of Trader is A market participant, who makes deals in order to gain profit.

The defination and meaning of Trading Bands is Lines plotted in and around the price structure to form an envelope, answering whether prices are high or low on a relative basis and forewarning whether to buy or sell by using indicators to confirm price action.

The defination and meaning of Trading Halt is A trading halt is imposed by the exchange, usually due to the dissemination of news that might impact a stock's price.

The defination and meaning of Trading Issue is The status of a listed security of an issuer whose trading privileges are active on the Exchange.

The defination and meaning of Trading Number is The unique, 3-digit number assigned to each Participating Organization and Member to identify it for market transparency.

The defination and meaning of Trading philosophies is There seem to be three major and well defined trading philosophies; contrary opinion, fundamental analysis and technical analysis. It further appears that although each commodities author may claim to have strongly adopted one of philosophies that most seem to practice combinations of each.

Contrary Opinion: Contrary opinion was first prominently set forth by Neill Humphrey in The Art of Contrary Thinking. Several other texts are also included in the References section. Very simply put, contrary opinion is practiced at market tops and bottoms. It relies heavily on the belief that most traders will be wrongly investing to continue the current trend immediately before a reversal occurs.

Fundamental: A fundamentalist strongly believes that the perception of supply and demand sets the price and direction of market prices. Consistent with this belief, the fundamentalist researches information on inventories, changes in the nature of the consuming market, factors affecting manufacture and delivery, rumors which might affect what other traders currently believe about the condition of supply and demand and a multitude of other data and factors. Fundamental factors vary with commodities–grains are affected by weather conditions, current and forecasted, and by government reports; currencies are affected by interest rates and where they are trending, and political conditions. You can see that aggressive fundamental trading requires a great deal of study.

Technical: The pure technical trader relies strictly on price information. This trader would strongly believe that all of the fundamental factors are either already integrated into or are being signaled by the current price patterns. Because of this, the major tool of the technical trader is the price chart; the bar, the candlestick and the Point and Figure Charts.

The defination and meaning of Trading Range is A trading range occurs when a stock or average moves up and down between a consistent high and low for an extended period of time (days, to weeks, to months). The bottom of the range becomes fairly solid support as the top becomes fairly solid resistance the more times either holds. We play stocks within the trading ranges if they are loose enough to give us some room to maneuver, e.g., a 5 point range or more. A tight trading range is one that is significantly narrower than a particular stock?s usual trading fluctuations. A tight trading range on low volume is usually a very good indicator that a move up is coming.

The defination and meaning of Trading Session is The period during which the Exchange is open for trading.

The defination and meaning of Traditional IRA is Original IRA designed to encourage individuals to save for retirement. The three benefits of a Traditional IRA are tax deferral of interest/earnings, potential tax deferral of contributions and assurance for a more financially secure retirement.

The defination and meaning of Trailing Stop is A stop-loss order that follows the prevailing price trend.

The defination and meaning of Trailing Twelve Months (TTM) is The last four reported quarters.

The defination and meaning of Transaction is An operation of buying or selling a security.

The defination and meaning of Transaction Date is The date when the purchase or sale of a security takes place.

The defination and meaning of Transaction taxes is Tax that uses a specific type of transaction as its object, e.g. sales tax, immovable property transfer tax, etc.

The defination and meaning of Transactions is As reported in exchange trading statistics, represents the total number of trades for a specified period.

The defination and meaning of Transfer Agent is A trust company appointed by a listed company to keep a record of the names, addresses and number of shares held by its shareholders. Frequently, the transfer agent also distributes dividend cheques to the company's shareholders.

The defination and meaning of Transfer Response is Refers to the shape of the wave coming out of a filter in comparison to the shape going into it.

The defination and meaning of Transfer tax is Tax levied on the transfer of goods and rights, e.g. purchase and/or sale of securities and immovable property.

The defination and meaning of Transferable credit is A transferable credit is a credit under which the beneficiary has the right to give instructions to the bank called upon to affect payment or acceptance, or to any bank entitled to effect negotiation, to make the credit available in whole or in part to one or more third parties (second beneficiaries).

The defination and meaning of Transferable Security is A security that can be transferred from one party holder to another without restrictions, provided that all proper documentation is included.

The defination and meaning of Transform is A process to change or convert. For example, a simple moving average is a filter to reduce noise; the moving average is the transform function.

The defination and meaning of Transportation tax is Tax levied on vehicles, ships and aircraft using public highways, rivers, and airports maintained by the government.

The defination and meaning of Treasury Bills is A government security, sold through Reserve Bank of India for short-term loans, 91 days to 364 days.

The defination and meaning of Treasury Stock is Stock a company issues then buys back, at which time it is placed in the company's treasury, where it earns no dividends and carries no voting privileges.

The defination and meaning of Treaties is Reinsurance contracts.

The defination and meaning of Treaty reinsurance is A standing agreement between insurers and reinsurers. Under a treaty each party automatically accepts specific percentages of the insurer?s business.

The defination and meaning of Trend is A move in price either upward or downward, characterized by a series of higher lows and higher highs (uptrends) or lower highs and lower lows (downtrend).

The defination and meaning of Trend Channel is A parallel probable price range centered about the most likely price line. Historically, this term has been used to denote the area between the base trendline and the reaction trendline defined by price moves against the prevailing trend.

The defination and meaning of Trend Day is A day in which the price of a futures contract moves consistently away from the opening range and does not return to the opening range prior to the close.

The defination and meaning of Trend Lines is These are lines, both up and down, that are formed by a stock?s price movement. In the simplest sense, trend lines are drawn between a stocks successive lows to find support, and successive highs to find resistance. The more times a stock?s price touches a trendline and holds, the better an indicator it is. Trend lines can be long term and short term, and, as noted, can be used to determine support and resistance. We often use trendlines to help determine when we should enter of exit trades. When we are in positions and following the trend, we do not like to see the stock break its trend for greater than one day. If a stock does that, it has changed its character, and the trendline is most likely no longer in force.

The defination and meaning of Trend-Following is Moving in the direction of the prevailing price movement.

The defination and meaning of Trending Market is Price moves in a single direction and it usually closes on an extreme for the day.

The defination and meaning of Trendless is Price movement that vacillates to the degree that a clear trend cannot be identified.

The defination and meaning of Trendline is A line which is drawn through successive maximum price movements, i.e., through a series of two or more successively lower peaks (downtrend) or successively higher troughs (uptrend). Trendlines can also be drawn through the close. The more instances of contact, the more the line is reinforced.

The defination and meaning of Treynor Ratio is A gauge of risk-adjusted performance calculated by dividing the excess return of a portfolio above the risk-free rate by its beta. Higher values are desirable and indicate greater return per unit of risk.

The defination and meaning of Triangle is Narrowing of a trading range formed by a series of lower highs as well as higher lows. The pattern is completed by an often sharp high volume break through either of the converging trendlines.

The defination and meaning of Triangular Moving Average is A moving average in which each day's data are multiplied by a weight that increases in value at steady increments to a peak value and then declines to zero at equivalent increments. The sum of the weighted daily data is divided by the number of variables.

The defination and meaning of Triple Top is Similar to a double top, though much rarer, but with three peaks instead of two. Volume on each successive peak is usually less than on the previous peak. The pattern is completed when the price declines below the second reaction low.

The defination and meaning of Triple Witching is the third Friday of March, June, September and December is the day when index futures, index future options, and certain stock options all expire. Triple Witching Fridays are know for high volatility.

The defination and meaning of Trustee is The person having legal ownership of the trust property; required by law to manage and distribute it in accordance with the instructions specified in the trust agreement.

The defination and meaning of Turnover is The total volume of all executed transactions in a given time period.

The defination and meaning of Turnover rent is A rent which is calculated as a proportion of the annual turnover of the lessee's business. Usually, it does not fall below a base rent. More commonly used in the USA, although in recent years being applied with increasing frequency in the Europe and the mature markets of Asia, especially in the case of the more profitable retail outlets.

The defination and meaning of Turnover tax is General term used to refer to the different forms of consumption and sales taxes.

The defination and meaning of Twisting is The acts of a life insurance agent to per-suade a client to drop one life policy and accept another, by misrepresenting the terms of either the present policy or the new policy, or both, to the detriment of the insured.

The defination and meaning of Two-way price is A quote in the foreign exchange market that indicates a bid and an offer.

The defination and meaning of Type is Describes either a put or call.

The defination and meaning of U.S. Treasury is The United States Department of the Treasury is the government department responsible for issuing all Treasury bonds, notes, and bills.

The defination and meaning of U.S. Treasury Bill is A short-term U.S. government debt instrument with an original maturity of one year or less. Bills are sold at a discount from par with the interest earned being the difference between the face value received at maturity and the price paid.

The defination and meaning of U.S. Treasury Bond is Government-debt security with a coupon and original maturity of more than 10 years. Interest is paid semiannually.

The defination and meaning of U.S. Treasury Note is Government-debt security with a coupon and original maturity of one to 10 years.

The defination and meaning of Umbrella policy is Coverage for losses above the limit of an underlying policy or policies such as homeowners and auto insurance. While it applies to losses over the amount stated in the underlying policies, terms of coverage are sometimes broader than those of under-lying policies.

The defination and meaning of Uncorrelated Exposure is Exposure to a risk factor, assuming that all other risk factors will remain constant.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Uncovered call writing is A short call option position in which the writer does not own an equivalent position in the underlying security represented by his option contracts.

The defination and meaning of Uncovered Option is The buy or sale of an option without a position in the underlying futures contract; also known as a naked option.

The defination and meaning of Uncovered put writing is A short put option position in which the writer does not have a corresponding short position in the underlying security or has not deposited, in a cash account, cash or cash equivalents equal to the exercise value of the put.

The defination and meaning of Underinsurance is The result of the policyholder?s failure to buy sufficient insurance. An underinsured policyholder may only receive part of the cost of replacing or repairing damaged items covered in the policy.

The defination and meaning of Underlying Futures Contract is The specific futures contract that is bought or sold by exercising an option.

The defination and meaning of Underlying Instrument is A trading instrument subject to purchase upon exercise.

The defination and meaning of Underlying Interest is The specific security, commodity, index or financial instrument that an option or futures contract is traded.

The defination and meaning of Underlying security is The security subject to being purchased or sold upon exercise of the option contract.

The defination and meaning of Underlying tax is Tax which is charged on corporate income out of which dividends are paid, but which does not appear as a direct deduction or withholding from the dividend itself.

The defination and meaning of Underpricing is Issue of securities below their market value.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Undervalued is A stock trading below its fair value.

The defination and meaning of Underwriter is An investment banking firm which enters into a contract with the issuer of new securities to distribute them to the investing public.

The defination and meaning of Underwriting Commission is The commission paid to the underwriter for bearing the risk of an issue.

The defination and meaning of Underwriting income is The insurer?s profit on the insurance sale after all expenses and losses have been paid. When premiums aren?t sufficient to cover claims and expenses, the result is an underwriting loss. Underwriting losses are typically offset by investment income.

The defination and meaning of Undistributed profits tax is Annual tax imposed, in addition to the normal corporate income tax, on the undistributed portion of the profits or surplus of a corporation.

The defination and meaning of Undue hardship is A substantial financial loss that would result to a taxpayer from making payment on the due date of the amount of taxes with respect to which the extension is desired. Undue hardship is a condition precedent to the granting of an extension of time to make a tax payment.

The defination and meaning of Unearned premium is The portion of a premium already received by the insurer under which protection has not yet been provided. The entire premium is not earned until the policy period expires, even though premiums are typically paid in advance.

The defination and meaning of Unfair calling insurance is Insurance coverage to protect principals who have issued demand guarantees or bonds against an unfair or abusive call of the bond/guarantee (i.e. one which is not truly based on non-performance by the principal).

The defination and meaning of Unfunded retention is Absorbing the expense of losses as they occur, rather than making any special advance arrangements to pay for them.

The defination and meaning of Unilateral contract is A contract, such as an insurance contract, in which only one of the parties makes promises that are legally enforceable.

The defination and meaning of Uninsurable risk is Risks for which it is difficult for someone to get insurance.

The defination and meaning of Union Budget is A comprehensive report of the government's financial statements, containing all expenditures and revenues -- actual numbers for the year going by (revised estimates) and forecast numbers for the year ahead (budgeted estimates).

The defination and meaning of Unique Client Code is This code is allotted to all members of exchange that will tell you about all details of clients

The defination and meaning of Unit is Just as shares represent the extent of equity ownership in a company, units represent your extent of ownership in a mutual fund.

The defination and meaning of Unit Holder is An investor who invests money in mutual funds.

The defination and meaning of Unitary tax system is Under a unitary tax system, the profits of the various branches of an enterprise or the various corporations of a group are calculated as if the entire group is a unity. A formula is used to apportion the net income of the whole group to the various parts of the group. Usually a combination of property, payroll, turnover, capital invested, manufacturing costs, etc. are formula factors.

The defination and meaning of Unitisation is The practice of consolidating many small pieces of freight into a single unit.

The defination and meaning of Univariate is Involving only one variable.

The defination and meaning of Unlisted is A security not listed on a stock exchange, but traded on the over-the-counter market.

The defination and meaning of Unload is To sell the units of mutual fund.

The defination and meaning of Unplanned retention is The implicit assumption of risk by a firm or individual that does not recognize that a risk is acknowledge to exist but the maximum possible loss associated with it is significantly underes-timated.

The defination and meaning of Uplifted rent is A rent which reflects lease terms which are more beneficial to the tenant than prevailing commercial terms, eg. a higher rent to reflect, say, 14-yearly reviews, rather than the more common five-yearly reviews.

The defination and meaning of Upside Breakout is This occurs when a stock has consolidated, formed a base, or has been in a trading range, and then breaks above that level, surpassing resistance at the top of the range or base. Breakouts are suspect if they do not occur on high volume (compared to average daily volume). When playing a stock to buy on the upside breakout, we like to use a "buy stop" which calls for purchase when a stock rises above a certain price.

The defination and meaning of Upside Volume is The total volume of all advancing stocks over a given time period, e.g. daily.

The defination and meaning of Uptick is A stock is said to be on an uptick when the last trade occurred at a higher price than the one before it.

The defination and meaning of Uptrend is Stock price is trending higher.

The defination and meaning of Urban centers is cities were classified into categories such as A, B and C and a ceiling on the maximum permissible usage on land by respective owners was set under provisions of the act.

The defination and meaning of Urban Land Ceiling and Regulation Act (ULCRA) is A legislation promulgated in 1976 as a social equity measure with a view to curb profiteering and hoarding in the urban land market as well as prevent urban congestion.

The defination and meaning of Usance draft (usance bill) is Time draft; a written demand for payment which comes due at a specified  future date.

The defination and meaning of Use tax is Tax on goods which are used within the taxing jurisdiction although the goods were purchased in another jurisdiction

The defination and meaning of User is The use or enjoyment of a property or of a right over property.

The defination and meaning of Utmost good faith is A legal doctrine in which a higher standard of honesty is imposed on parties to an insurance agreement than is imposed through ordi-nary commercial contracts.

The defination and meaning of V Pattern is A price pattern resembling the letter V, characterized by a sharp downward move followed immediately by a rapid upward progression, which is often accompanied by heavier volume.

The defination and meaning of Vaastu shastra is A traditional Indian architecture and design system, which specifies the detailed methodology of designing buildings, buying land etc. in order to maximise benefits, from the same for the occupier. This system relies in harmonising any real estate development with the five elements of Indian Mythology namely air, water, earth, fire and space.

The defination and meaning of Valuation is The process of making an estimate of worth of real property or real property or other assets for a particular purpose eg.letting, purchase, sale, audit, rating, compulsory purchase or taxation. That purpose and the relevant circumstances will determine assumptions and facts that are appropriate and hence the process used.

The defination and meaning of Valuation principles is Tax law principles regarding valuation of business and non-business assets, and inventory.

The defination and meaning of Value is The price that might an interested in property or some other asset might reasonably be expected to fetch if disposed of at right.

The defination and meaning of Value added tax (vat) is Specific type of turnover tax levied at each stage in the production and distribution process. Although VAT ultimately bears on individual consumption of goods or services, liability for VAT is on the supplier of goods or services. VAT normally utilizes a system of tax credits to place the ultimate and real burden of the tax on the final consumer and to relieve the intermediaries of any final tax cost.

The defination and meaning of Value Area is The price range on the CBOT Market Profile in which approximately 70% of the day's trades occur.

The defination and meaning of Value at Risk is A measure of market risk.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Value at Risk (VaR) is A measure of exposure within a given portfolio, which attempts to estimate how much the portfolio would be expected to lose, given the recent behavior of the securities contained therein.

The defination and meaning of Value Averaging is In which the average is taken of a series of values.

The defination and meaning of Value date is The maturity date of the currency for settlement, usually two business days (one day for Canada) after the trade has occurred.

The defination and meaning of Value Investor is One who looks for out of favor (value priced) stocks.

The defination and meaning of Value Stocks is Companies currently out of favor with investors. These companies usually have low valuation ratios (price/earnings less than the S&P 500, price/sales ratio less than 2, price/book ratio less than 2).

The defination and meaning of Valued policy is A policy under which the insurer pays a specified amount of money to or on behalf of the insured upon the occurrence of a defined loss. The money amount is not related to the extent of the loss. Life insurance policies are an example.

The defination and meaning of Vandalism is The malicious and often random destruction or spoilage of another person?s property.

The defination and meaning of Variable annuity is An annuity whose value may fluctuate according to the value of underlying securities in which the funds are invested.

The defination and meaning of Variable Limit is According to the Chicago Board of Trade rules, an expanded allowable price range set during volatile markets.

The defination and meaning of Variable-Length Moving Average is A moving average where the number of periods selected for smoothing is based on a volatility measurement of price. Typically, the standard deviation of price is used to measure price volatility. The more volatile the price is, the shorter the number of periods used is for smoothing.

The defination and meaning of Variation margin is Funds, which are required to bring the equity in an account back up to the initial margin level, calculated on a day-to-day basis.

The defination and meaning of VAT is Value added tax.

The defination and meaning of Vega is The amount by which the price of an option changes when the volatility changes.

The defination and meaning of Venture Capital is A source of money for start up companies. This is typically raised by venture capital firms who invest in private companies that need capital to develop and market their products. In return for this investment, the venture capitalists generally receive significant ownership of the company and seats on the board.

The defination and meaning of Venture Capital Fund is A limited company formed to provide venture or risk capital to new industries.

The defination and meaning of Venture Capitalist is An investor involved in financing a company’s operations before going public in exchange for an ownership percentage.

The defination and meaning of Vertical equity is Doctrine which holds that differently situated taxpayers should be treated differently, i.e. taxpayers with more income and/or capital should pay more tax.

The defination and meaning of Vertical slice participation is A method of multi-participation in a venture, usually a development, whereby each of the participants owns a separate legal interest in the whole of the property concerned by way of the freehold, head lease or a subordinate interest. The documentation normally ensures that rental and other income and /or capital receipts as well as the cost of any revenue or capital liabilities are shared by the participants in predetermined percentages related to their respective contributions, whether financial or otherwise.

The defination and meaning of Vertical Spread is Buying and selling puts or calls of the same expiration month but different strike prices.

The defination and meaning of Vested is For a retirement savings plan participant, vesting refers to the gradual granting of ownership of contributions made by your employer.

The defination and meaning of Vesting is The passing of certain time-based milestones (i.e., per a vesting schedule) whereby employer matching contributions to your retirement plan become permanently yours regardless of future employment.

The defination and meaning of Vesting Bonus is It is the bonus which the insurer declares after evaluating its assets and liabilities and that is added to the sum assured under a policy.

The defination and meaning of Viatical settlement is The purchase of a life insur-ance policy from a terminally ill individual by an unrelated third party.

The defination and meaning of Vicarious liability is Legal responsibility for the wrong committed by another person.

The defination and meaning of Vicarious liability laws is Laws requiring that parents assume liability for the acts of their children and that bar owners assume liability for the acts of their patrons. Also makes car owners liable for acts of driv-ers of their cars.

The defination and meaning of VISA is Banks and financial institutions around the world distribute VISA cards, a product of VISA, USA.

The defination and meaning of Void is A policy contract that for some reason specified in the policy becomes free of all legal effect. One example under which a policy could be voided is when information a policyholder provided is proven untrue.

The defination and meaning of Volatile is When the market or security tends to vary often and wildly in prices, it is said to be volatile.

The defination and meaning of Volatility is The measurement of how much an underlying security fluctuates over a period of time.

The defination and meaning of Volume is Volume is the daily number of shares of a security that are traded. Volume is one of the most important indicators we watch. Its relation with price movements tells us 90% of the story behind a stock?s movement and future movements. At its simplest, increased volume on increasing prices shows accumulation. Increased volume on lower prices shows distribution. There are many variations on this theme, and we spend a great deal of time poring over price/volume relations to determine which way a stock will move.

The defination and meaning of Volume accumulation is This volume indicator addresses some of On Balance Volume’s shortcomings and was developed by Marc Chaikin. Where OBV assigns all of a day’s volume a positive or negative value, Volume Accumulation counts only a percentage of the volume as positive or negative, depending on where the close is in relation to the average price of the day. The only time the entire day’s volume is assigned a positive value is when the close is the same as the day’s high. The opposite applies for a close at the day’s low.

The defination and meaning of Volume indicators is A family of technical indicators that combine price and volume to form time series that can be used in formulas. In theory, volume leads price, so you should be able to predict where price is going by examining volume. Volume indicators try to capitalize on this belief. In formulas, On-Balance Volume is a volume indicator represented by the building block K.

The defination and meaning of Volume Price Trend (VPT) is In which a running sum is maintained when a day's total volume is added if the market closes positive or the day's total volume is subtracted if the market closes lower.

The defination and meaning of Volume spike is Unusually large volume, graphed on a bar chart as a spike. To locate volume spikes, you compare a single day’s volume to average volume. If one day’s volume is two to three times the average volume, it will appear as a spike. Unusually large volume often foreshadows a major change in price trend.

The defination and meaning of Voluntary act is A characteristic of a negligent act- the person committing the act chose to do so and could have chosen not to.

The defination and meaning of Voluntary coverage is Insurance coverage purchased at the discretion of the buyer.

The defination and meaning of Vote on Account is The Vote on Account is a grant made in advance by the Parliament, allowing an outgoing government to incur expenses for the part of the year it will be in office.

The defination and meaning of VWAP is Volume Weighted Average Price. Volume Weighted Average Price. Volume Weighted Average Price is equal to the sum of the volume of every transaction multiplied by the price of every transaction divided by the total volume for the trading day.A trading benchmark particularly used in pension plans. Calculated by adding up the dollars traded for every transaction (price times shares traded) and then divide by the total shares traded for the day. The theory is that if the price of a buy trade is lower than the VWAP, it is a good trade. The opposite is true if the price is higher than the VWAP.

The defination and meaning of Wage tax is Levied at source as a withholding on wages; taxes thus withheld are usually offset against final income tax liability (if any).

The defination and meaning of Waiver is The surrender of a right or privilege. In life insurance, a provision that sets certain conditions, such as disablement, which allow coverage to remain in force without payment of premiums.

The defination and meaning of War hazard exclusion is Eliminates insurance coverage for death that is a direct result of war or other hostile action.

The defination and meaning of War risk is Special coverage on cargo in overseas ships against the risk of being confiscated by a government in wartime. It is excluded from standard ocean marine insurance and can be purchased separately. It often excludes cargo awaiting shipment on a wharf or on ships after 15 days of arrival in port.

The defination and meaning of Warehouse is Premises designed and built for the purpose of bulk storage of raw materials or finished or partly finished goods, pending either onward transit or division into smaller batches and subsequent distribution.

The defination and meaning of Warehouse Receipt is Document guaranteeing the existence and availability of a given quantity and quality of a commodity in storage; commonly used as the instrument of transfer of ownership in both cash and futures transactions.

The defination and meaning of Warrant is A company-issued certificate that represents an option to buy stock shares at a given time.

The defination and meaning of Warranty is A clause in an insurance contract that requires certain conditions, circumstances, or facts to be true before or after the contract is in force.

The defination and meaning of Wasting is A term depicting how an option's value decreases over time; as each day after acquisition passes a portion of the option's time value is lost or wasted.

The defination and meaning of Watch Portfolio is A group of stocks or funds that you are tracking, but don’t currently own.

The defination and meaning of Wear and tear is Decline in value through the ordinary use of an asset. Income tax systems usually allow deductions in calculating the profits of a business using buildings, plant and machinery which are subject to wear and tear in the course of the business.

The defination and meaning of Weather insurance is A type of business interruption insurance that compensates for financial losses caused by adverse weather conditions, such as constant rain on the day scheduled for a major outdoor concert.

The defination and meaning of Wedge is Similar to the triangle but with both converging trendlines, trending sharply in the same direction. An upward or downward slanting triangle (rising wedge, falling wedge). It can be either a continuation pattern or a reversal pattern.

The defination and meaning of When-Issued Trading is Occurs when the security has been listed and posted for trading, but the certificate representing the security itself is not yet issued and available for settlement. The exchange bulletin issued on listing of the security indicates if the trading will be done on a when-issued basis. In this case, the issuance of the security is guaranteed and the delay in issuance is often due to factors relating to the printing and distribution of the security. The period for when-issued trading is usually less than one week.

The defination and meaning of Whisper Number is Analysts publish earnings forecasts for companies they follow. Sometimes analysts publish a lower number than they really believe to reduce chances of a negative surprise, but they supposedly "whisper" what they really think to their best friends. Most whisper numbers you see on the Web are simply the analysts' consensus forecasts plus the average of the most recent two or three earnings surprises.

The defination and meaning of Whole Life Insurance is Life insurance that is kept in force for a person's whole life as along as the scheduled premiums are maintained and where benefits are payable to a beneficiary on death of the insured, whenever that occurs. The premium payment can happen for a specified number of years or throughout life.

The defination and meaning of Will is A way to transfer ownership of property at death.

The defination and meaning of Williams %R is William’s Percent R was created by Larry Williams to identify overbought and oversold conditions based on today’s price in relation to past prices. It is another overbought/oversold indicator that is expressed as a percentage, and ranges from 100% to zero, which is the reverse of the Relative Strength Index. Williams %R has an excellent ability to anticipate price extremes and many times forms a top or bottom and reverses days before the securities does. The chart is read upside down with peaks designates as lows on the %R scale. Oversold readings occur in the 80-100 range and overbought readings in the 0-20 range.

The defination and meaning of Willing seller-willing buyer is An assumption sometimes made for valuation purposes that the owner of the property concerned is willing to dispose of his interest therein and that there is at least one genuine purchaser in the market for that interest, whether or not such is actually the case at the date of valuation.

The defination and meaning of Window is Set period of time such as a lookback period for market indicator in question.

The defination and meaning of Wire House is An individual or organization that solicits or accepts orders to buy or sell futures contracts or options on futures and accepts money or other assets from customers to support such orders. Also referred to as "commission house" or "wire house.”

The defination and meaning of Withdrawal is When a company decides to not continue with its proposed offering of securities.

The defination and meaning of Withdrawal Plan is The facility to periodically redeem mutual fund and have proceeds mailed directly to the investor.

The defination and meaning of Withdrawals is When income or goods are withdrawn from a business by the entrepreneur to his private household (without a consideration), the income or the value of such goods normally constitutes a taxable event in the hands of the recipient for income tax purposes. Similarly, a withdrawal of goods or services for private use constitutes a taxable transaction for VAT purposes in most countries using such a system.

The defination and meaning of Withholding tax is Tax on income imposed at source, i.e. a third party is charged with the task of deducting the tax from certain kinds of payments and remitting that amount to the government. Withholding taxes are found in practically all tax systems and are widely used in respect of dividends, interest, royalties and similar tax payments. The rates of withholding tax are frequently reduced by tax treaties.

The defination and meaning of Workers compensation is Insurance that pays for medical care and physical rehabilitation of injured workers and helps to replace lost wages while they are unable to work.

The defination and meaning of Working Capital is Current assets minus current liabilities.

The defination and meaning of World Trade Organization(WTO) is International government organization (with over 120 members) designed to shape an international trade system; it was created in 1994 as the GATT successor. WTO headquaters is in Geneva. Although the Soviet Union was a member of the GATT, Russia is not a member of WTO yet.

The defination and meaning of World wide income is Criterion for the income tax liability of a resident company or individual of a certain country. In many countries a resident company or individual is subject to corporate/individual income tax on its worldwide income, subject to double taxation relief.

The defination and meaning of Write is To write an option is to sell an option. The person who sells the option is considered to be the writer.

The defination and meaning of Writer is The person who sells an option in return for a premium and is obligated to perform when the holder exercises his right under the option contract. Also referred to as the writer or granter.

The defination and meaning of Written down value is The value of an asset which is depreciable for income tax purposes, determined by deducting from the total cost, including installation, etc. the deduction that have been made for wear and tear or depreciation in previous tax years.

The defination and meaning of Written-down value is At a given time, the result of making one or more annual of periodic deductions for depreciation against capital cost or worth.

The defination and meaning of X is A Nasdaq stock symbol specifying that it is a mutual fund.

The defination and meaning of Xystus is A covered colonnade, as originally used for exercise by Greek athletes. Or a garden walk, usually bordered by trees.

The defination and meaning of Yard is A slang word used in the currency industry meaning "billion".

The defination and meaning of Yen is The national currency of Japan. It was introduced in 1872 and remains one of the major reserve currencies in the world.

The defination and meaning of Yield is This is the measure of the return on an investment and is shown as a percentage. A stock yield is calculated by dividing the annual dividend by the stock's current market price. For example, a stock selling at $50 and with an annual dividend of $5 per share yields 10%. A bond yield is a more complicated calculation, involving annual interest payments, plus amortizing the difference between its current market price and par value over the life of the bond.

The defination and meaning of Yield is A measure of a bond's potential return.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Yield Curve is A chart in which the yield level is plotted on the vertical axis and the term to maturity of debt instruments of similar creditworthiness is plotted on the horizontal axis. The yield curve is positive when long-term rates are higher than short-term rates; however, the yield curve is sometimes negative or inverted.

The defination and meaning of Yield Curve is The return on debt securities with different maturities, for a level of default risk.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Yield interest rate is Yield refers to the actual rate of interest expressed as a rate per cent per annum relating to the net proceeds or outlay.
The formulae for converting yields to discounts and discounts to yields are as follows:
Yield = 36500 ´ Discount Rate
36500 - (Days to Maturity ´ Discount Rate)
Discount      = 36500 ´ Yield Rate
36500 (Days to Maturity ´ Yield Rate)

The defination and meaning of Yield to Maturity is The rate of return an investor receives if a fixed-income security is held to maturity.

The defination and meaning of Yield to Maturity (YTM) is The rate of return the investor will earn if the bond is held to maturity.
Fixed Income

The defination and meaning of Yield up is Give up possession, especially by the tenant at the end of a lease.

The defination and meaning of Z-Score is A statistical measure that quantifies the distance (measured in standard deviations) a data point is from the mean of a data set. In a more financial sense, Z-score is the output from a credit-strength test that gauges the likelihood of bankruptcy.

The defination and meaning of Zero Balance is What shows on a credit card holder's bill when all outstanding dues are paid and no new purchases have been made during the billing cycle.

The defination and meaning of Zero Coupon Bond is A bond that has no coupon payments. It pays only a single cash flow at maturity.
Fixed Income, Bonds

The defination and meaning of Zero Coupon Bond is Bond sold at a fraction of its face value. It appreciates gradually, but no periodic interest payments are made. Earnings accumulate until maturity, when the bond is redeemable at full face value. Nonetheless, interest is taxable as it accrues. As a result, zero coupon bonds are often used for IRAs, Keoghs and other tax-deferred retirement plans.

The defination and meaning of Zero rate is The term is used in relation to VAT, where the rate of tax which is in principle levied but at a rate of 0% so that in effect no tax is payable, but will result in refunds of input tax credits.

The defination and meaning of Zero-Coupon Government Bonds is Government bonds that are purchased at a deep discount and pay no cash dividend, unlike regular bonds.

The defination and meaning of Zigzag is In a bull market, an Elliott three-wave pattern that subdivides into a 5-3-5 pattern with the top of wave B noticeably lower than the start of wave A. In a bear market, this pattern will be inverted.

The defination and meaning of Zone is A defined area of land or part of a building which is allocated for a particular purpose, eg. development plans may allocate areas of land for different uses or values of property may distinguish between areas of floorspace of a building and ascribe different values to them.

The defination and meaning of Zoning is In planning terms, the dividing of an area by a local planning authority into zones for particular uses or activities.

The defination and meaning of “On call” services is Services provided by a parent company or a group service centre, which are available at any time for members of an MNE group.

